<meta charset="utf-8" />
# Window-Eyes 7.0 Revision History

## Document Layout
This document is laid out as follows:

* Each heading level 1 represents one major version of Window-Eyes.
* Each heading level 2 represents one minor version of Window-Eyes
* Each heading level 3 represents a category of new features under each version of Window-Eyes.

## 7.5.4.1
Released: 4/23/2012

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.5.4.1 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.5.4.1. This version includes several improvements made after the release of Window-Eyes 7.5.4. 

### Braille 
* Navigating through edit boxes could become very sluggish at times if Braille was active. 
* It was not possible to route the Braille cursor to the last character of a standard or UIA edit box. This has been resolved. 

### Internet Explorer 
* A stability problem in Internet Explorer 9 has been resolved. 

### Miscellaneous 
* If Window-Eyes was set to load before Windows and a log on screen was present, apps would sometimes appear as untrusted at the desktop after the first time Window-Eyes was launched. 

## 7.5.4
Released: 4/5/2012

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.5.4 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.5.4. This version includes a number of general stability improvements, fixes for issues encountered in web, email, and Office applications, updated Braille drivers, and more. 

### Stability Improvements 

The primary focus of Window-Eyes 7.5.4 is increased stability. Thanks to error reports from Window-Eyes 7.5.3 as well as customer feedback via our various avenues of communication, many issues have been corrected and Window-Eyes is even more stable than before. Specific issues are noted below, though the majority of corrections effect Window-Eyes as a whole. Please continue to provide feedback. It is because of our customers that Window-Eyes retains the reputation of being the most stable, dependable screen reader on the market. 

### Firefox 
* Window-Eyes will no longer cause Browse Mode to reactivate when typing into specific forms with autocomplete edit boxes such as EBay, Google, Youtube, and others. 

### Internet Explorer 
* Several stability problems specific to IE 9 have been resolved. 
* When Browse Mode is disabled, Window-Eyes will now say "edit" for all UIA edit boxes. Previously it would say "edit" for normal text fields but "edit box" for password form fields. 
* Navigating through UIA text boxes (in IE 9 and in other programs) is faster. 
* Math Player support has been improved. 

### Office 
* Window-Eyes would sometimes speak the selected item twice when arrowing through a minimized ribbon. This has been fixed. 
* Browse Mode would frequently become active when Composing mail in Outlook 2003 when Internet Explorer 9 was installed on Windows Vista or Windows 7. This has been resolved. 

### Windows Live Mail 
* When adding or reviewing multiple recipients in an email message, Window-Eyes would previously speak only "semicolon" for each person. The name and email addresses are now read correctly. 
* Moving through a WLM folder would sometimes cause the selected item to be read twice. This has been fixed. 
* The problem of Browse Mode activating when composing messages in Windows Live Mail has been fixed. 
* The page tabs in the WLM Edit Contact dialog now speak correctly. 
* Reviewing text inside WLM composition windows is much more reliable than it was previously. 
* Window-Eyes would sometimes read the wrong information if a new WLM message began with one or more blank lines and the cursor was placed on the first line of text. This has been fixed. 
* The Windows Live Mail app for Window-Eyes has been updated. 

### Windows Mail 
* Browse Mode would frequently become active when Composing mail in Windows Mail when Internet Explorer 9 was installed on Windows Vista. This has been resolved. 

### Braille 
* The Eurobraille drivers and default hotkey assignments have been updated. 

### Miscellaneous 
* In previous versions of Window-Eyes, pressing the Insert key by itself would perform the appropriate Windows function (such as toggling you between overtype or normal writing modes within word processors). Due to customer feedback, this behavior has been changed in Window-Eyes 7.5.4. Pressing Insert by itself now does nothing and, consequently, one will no longer unintentionally engage overtype mode. If you want to allow the Insert key to act as it did before, either press the Window-Eyes bypass command (Insert-B by default) before pressing Insert, or open wineyes.ini and set "BlockInsertToggle" to 0. 
* Window-Eyes would sometimes freeze when logging out of a secure desktop, locking a computer, or when the user account control appeared. This has been fixed. 
* Window-Eyes would not always communicate with applications launched as other users on the same machine. Now it does. 
* The Eloquence driver has been updated to account for more possible strings which would cause Window-Eyes to crash. 

### Scripting 
* Window-Eyes will no longer announce the status of Browse Mode when it is adjusted through scripting. 

NOTE: Please refer to the updated scripting manual for detailed information about all new objects, properties, methods, and enums. 

## 7.5.3
Released: 2/9/2012
Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.5.3 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.5.3. This version includes a number of stability improvements, Windows Live and Thunderbird fixes, support for the Braille Edge display from HIMS, native support for QT-based applications, and bug fixes. 

### Stability Improvements 

The primary focus of Window-Eyes 7.5.3 is increased stability. Thanks to error reports from Window-Eyes 7.5.2 as well as customer feedback via our various avenues of communication, many issues have been corrected and Window-Eyes is even more stable than before. Specific issues are noted below, though the majority of corrections effect Window-Eyes as a whole. Please continue to provide feedback. It is because of our customers that Window-Eyes retains the reputation of being the most stable, dependable screen reader on the market. 

### Email 
* An issue where Browse Mode would engage while composing email in the newest versions of Thunderbird has been corrected. 
* Windows Live Mail now speaks and brailles correct information when Internet Explorer 9 is installed. 

### Miscellaneous 
* The Window-Eyes control panel would sometimes display inaccurate information about the previously active window. This has been fixed. 
* The error reporting process has been sped up, and the time allowed to send reports has been increased for customers with slow internet connections. 
* When arrowing to the end of a line inside an edit box, Window-Eyes would sometimes ding or report the wrong character. This has been fixed. 

### Office 
* The Window-Eyes office add-in would fail to load on some customized Office installations. This has been fixed. 
* Window-Eyes would sometimes lock up inside the Outlook spell checker or if an invalid date was specified in the Outlook calendar. Both of these problems have been fixed. 

### QT 
* Window-Eyes now includes native support for QT-based software such as Virtual Box, the Accessible Kindle Reader from Amazon, Tappin Radio, and more. The QT Support app from App Central is no longer required. 

### Braille 
* Support for the Braille Edge display from HIMS has been added. 

### Scripting 
* Changing a synthesizer's flow control via scripting would sometimes fail. This has been fixed. 
* A problem where apps would sometimes appear as untrusted immediately after installing Window-Eyes has been corrected. 
* Window-Eyes would sometimes crash when attempting to load an encrypted JScript app. This has been fixed. 

NOTE: Please refer to the updated scripting manual for detailed information about all new objects, properties, methods, and enums. 

## 7.5.2
Released: 11/21/2011

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.5.2 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.5.2. This version includes improved stability, support for the latest versions of Firefox and Thunderbird, comprehensive Braille support in UIA and IA2 applications, support for the latest Braille displays, Windows XP support for the remote assistance feature, Office fixes, user interface improvements, and bug fixes. 

### Stability Improvements 
* A number of scenarioes which would cause Window-Eyes to become unstable or crash in applications such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Office, etc. have been resolved. 
* Thanks to feedback and the error reports we received from our customers, Window-Eyes stability and reliability have been greatly improved in 7.5.2. 

### Remote Assistance 
* The Window-Eyes remote assistance feature is now compatible with Windows XP in addition to Windows Vista and Windows 7. Note that for a remote assistance session to work successfully, both parties must be running Window-Eyes 7.5.2. For more information regarding this feature, consult the "Remote Access" section inside the Window-Eyes user manual. 

### Browse Mode 
* Browse Mode Placemarkers are no longer temporary by default 

### Email 
* Window-Eyes is now fully compatible with Mozilla Thunderbird 5 and newer. 
* Browse Mode would sometimes engage when composing new messages or replies in Thunderbird. This has been fixed. 
* The Read Status Bar hot key would cause Window-Eyes to speak the status line 4 times in Thunderbird. Now the line is only read once. 

### Firefox 
* There were some cases where selecting text inside a Firefox edit box would cause the browser to crash. This has been fixed. 
* Window-Eyes sometimes would not announce the newly focused form element if it was reached by pressing Tab while outside of Browse Mode. This problem has been resolved. 

### Internet Explorer 
* Reading the contents of IE 9 edit boxes has been greatly sped up. 
* Window-Eyes now recognizes rate and pitch changes when reading inside a MathPlayer-enabled web page. Note: this added capability is currently limited to SAPI 4 and SAPI 5 synthesizers. 

### iTunes 
* Window-Eyes 7.5.2 now fully supports iTunes 10.5. 

### Miscellaneous 
* On the first launch after installing an upgrade, Window-Eyes no longer displays the "Add or Remove Apps" window when the default apps are updated. Instead, Window-Eyes says, "Installing default apps. Please wait" when the process begins, and "app installation complete" when finished. During this time, a brief tone will sound every few seconds to alert you that Window-Eyes is still working. 
* The Window-Eyes Mirror driver has been updated. 
* The Eloquence driver has been updated to account for more possible strings which would cause the synthesizer to crash. 
* Window-Eyes would not speak when pressing either Home or End while the keyboard focus was on a tab control. Now it does. 
* Due to customer feedback, there is now an additional group of radio buttons in the General/Startup Options section of the Window-Eyes control panel which allows you to specify what Window-Eyes says when it starts. The choices are "Nothing," "Window-Eyes," and "Window-Eyes 7.5.2.0." 
* Checking for updates via the help menu now opens a dialog instead of opening the GW Micro website. The dialog contains information about your version and SMA counts in addition to links to the GW Micro update and online catalog pages. 
* The About option from the Help menu now displays information about your SMA (if any), as well as if it is a standard or timed SMA. 
* Window-Eyes no longer relies on its offscreen model when reading the content of edit boxes. 
* The exit table mode hot key in the laptop layout is now Dash instead of Control-Shift-Underline. 
* The process of displaying the list of available SAPI synthesizers in the Devices/Synthesizers section of the Window-Eyes control panel has been greatly sped up. 
* Window-Eyes would take a long time to begin speaking large amounts of either UIA or static text. This now begins instantly. 
* Window-Eyes now reads WPF and MFC grid controls correctly. 
* Some hot keys, like Insert-F4/F4/F7 and Control-Shift-F3/F7, require that advanced options be enabled from within the Window-Eyes Help menu to work. If any of these types of keys are pressed and advanced options are hidden, Window-Eyes now alerts you to enable them. 
* Window-Eyes no longer manipulates window activations when any of its windows gain keyboard focus. 
* Window-Eyes cursor keys would sometimes not work if a global and program-specific definition collided. This has been resolved. 
* As the Window-Eyes Sonar support is now present in the Sonar Enhance app (downloadable separately from App Central), the original mechanism for retrieving this program's specialized accessibility information has been moved out of Window-Eyes and into the app. 
* Window-Eyes sometimes would not read a text document which displayed in Notepad if it was opened from Windows Explorer. This has been fixed. 
* Window-Eyes would not read tooltips and popup balloons under 64-bit versions of Windows Vista and Windows 7. This has been fixed. 
* Tab controls created with the WX windowing toolkit are now treated as native Windows controls. 
* The Toggle All Voices hot key now works as intended. 
* Window-Eyes now announces when a minimized application gains focus. 
* Window-Eyes sometimes had trouble reading the content of UIA combo boxes. This has been fixed. 

### Office 
* Window-Eyes was not reading list view column headers in the file open dialog in Excel 2003. This issue has been fixed. 

### Braille 
* Braille now works in UIA and IA2 applications. This includes (but is not limited to) programs such as Firefox 4 and up, Thunderbird 5 and up, Internet Explorer 9, and Visual Studio 2010. In addition, Braille support has been added to Windows Live 2011. 
* The key names and default keys for the Seika Braille display have been updated. 
* Support has been added for the Humanware Brailliant BI braille display. 
* The Humanware BrailleNote drivers have been updated. 
* Shifting the Braille display inside Microsoft Word was not always working when pressing a routing key if spacing and indents were visible on the display. This has been fixed. 
* If you were in a reclassed listview (such as in Total commander or Outlook 2007 and earlier) and you had a left bracket followed by some text Window-Eyes would add an extra space between those two characters. This has been fixed. 
* The Braille Show Attributes toggle hot key and the attribute marking option in the Window-Eyes control panel did not work. Now they do. 
* If you created a program-specific Braille hot key, saved the definition, and restarted Window-Eyes, Window-Eyes would use the global definition instead of the program-specific entry. This issue has been resolved. 
* Focus would become confused if you changed the state of the virtual Braille window inside the Window-Eyes control panel. This problem has been corrected. 

### Scripting 
* If a Window-Eyes dialog was triggered via scripting and the program was also attempting to shut down, Window-Eyes could become unstable. This has been fixed. 
* The OnCursorKey and OnHotKey events used only the return value of whichever app most recently hooked them regardless of what any previous apps wanted. This has been fixed. 
* If an app's status was set to "untrusted" and the App Manager opened, Window-Eyes would display an error. This has been resolved. 
* The Script.StopScript() method would not always stop the calling script immediately and would sometimes allow additional lines to execute. Now the app will stop as soon as this method is called. 
* Enumerating through the loaded scripts collection would sometimes cause Window-Eyes to crash. This has been resolved. 
* When you install an app in a non-English environment, Window-Eyes still displayed the English package information. The correct non-English language is used now if it is available. 
* If an app was in use which used a frozen Braille section, Window-Eyes would sometimes crash. This has been fixed. 

NOTE: Please refer to the updated scripting manual for detailed information about all new objects, properties, methods, and enums. 

## 7.5.1
Released: 6/21/2011

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.5.1 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.5.1. This version includes improved support for the latest versions of Firefox, improvements to Internet Explorer 9 support, Office fixes, user interface improvements, Outlook and Thunderbird enhancements, and bug fixes found in Window-Eyes 7.5. 

### Email 
* Two new apps are included with Window-Eyes 7.5.1: Outlook Enhance and TB Enhance. Outlook Enhance enables you to customize how column headers are spoken in message lists, easily access contact details, attachments, and view HTML messages in the default web browser inside Microsoft Outlook. TB Enhance enables you to use the Alt-1 through Alt-7 hot keys to quickly access different message field information when available, automatically maximize Thunderbird windows, access to mailbox column headers, and email auto-completion support, and support for using the default tabbed message view. See the "Help" items under each app's entry in the Window-Eyes Apps menu for additional details. 

### Firefox 
* There were a number of minor accessibility regressions introduced with Firefox 4. As of Window-Eyes 7.5.1, full Firefox support once again exists for the latest versions of Mozilla's web browser. 
* Onclicks were often times not correctly identified in Firefox under Windows 7. This issue has been resolved. 

### Internet Explorer 
* We fixed a problem where headings on some web sites were incorrectly rendered in Browse Mode with Internet Explorer 9. 

### Miscellaneous 
* If you changed the global startup options from the Window-Eyes defaults, they would not persist when you rebooted. This has been fixed. 
* If Window-Eyes was set to show its basic interface, some advanced app management options remained available. This has been corrected. 
* The numbers rotor hot key would get stuck once it was set to off. Now it correctly cycles through all options. 
* Mouse pointer descriptions are now disabled by default. 
* Some hot keys were defined in the laptop layout but not in the default. Now both keyboard layouts define the same Window-Eyes hot keys. See the hot key reference in the Window-Eyes manual for a list of updated assignments. 
* When attempting to access an option from the basic Window-Eyes interface that was unavailable, such as the Verbosity section reached with Insert-V, Window-Eyes said, "This option requires advanced-level menus." Now, it says, "This option requires Show Advanced Options to be enabled in the help menu." 
* Window-Eyes did not report when a menu opened if the respective verbosity option was enabled. Now it does. 
* The Scope column header in the Hot Keys list view contained extraneous text. Now it does not. 
* If a hot key was changed under Windows XP, the hot keys list view sometimes would not update. Now it does. 
* When the Page Navigation dialog was first opened from within Browse Mode with Insert-Tab, the dialog announcement sometimes spoke twice. This has been resolved. 
* Extraneous text was sometimes displayed in the synthesizer selection list view. This has been corrected. 
* It is now possible to arrow continuously through any of the radio button selection groups in the Window-Eyes control panel. 
* The Factory Settings dialog would sometimes take longer than normal to load under certain circumstances. This has been resolved. 
* The package installation dialog no longer opens when app updates are installed along with new versions of Window-Eyes. 
* If Window-Eyes was set to display in the task bar, it sometimes would not gain focus when pressing Control-Backslash. This, along with similar focus issues, has been resolved. 
* The Capslock would sometimes stop acting as a Window-Eyes command modifier even if the option was enabled. This has been corrected. 
* An "Apply Layout" button has been added to the keyboard layout page of the Window-Eyes control panel. This allows you to test a layout without first having to save any other changes to disk. When you change the layout in its respective combo box, you must apply it with the new Apply Layout button, even if you intend to save the change. 
* When you changed the keyboard layout, the Outlook Calendar hot key would never update. Now it does. 
* When defining standard and hyperactive windows with Insert-f3 and Control-Shift-F3, focus now lands on the status pages for the respective window types. 
* The text in the Program Help dialog was in a read/write edit box. Since this information is rarely changed, it is now a read only edit box. There is an Enable Editing check box however if you wish to make changes. 
* When Insert-V or Control-Shift-E were used to jump to a particular spot in the Window-Eyes control panel, focus would not move correctly if the Settings tree view was not the most recently focused item. Now it works correctly. 
* Eloquence would crash if certain words were sent to it. The Window-Eyes Eloquence driver now safeguards the synthesizer from this problem. 
* There were some formatting issues in certain cases within the Window-Eyes control panel and app user interfaces which were brought out when using Cyrillic characters. This has been fixed. 
* All Window-Eyes dialogs are now displayed using the default font of the user's operating system. 
* The Help / About dialog now contains a read-only edit box containing dealer contact information (when applicable). 
* Window-Eyes version numbers now include four components. For example, the complete version number of this Window-Eyes release is 7.5.1.0. 
* The Window-Eyes version number is no longer spoken at startup. This information is still available in the Help / About dialog. 
* The user interface logic for defining dictionary entries has been greatly improved. 
* If Window-Eyes ever switched synthesizer languages and Eloquence, SAPI, or ViaVoice was in use, all future tone changes would be blocked. This has been fixed. 
* We worked around a Microsoft bug where Windows Explorer in Windows 7 would blow up if the mouse was placed over the Search edit box. 
* When reading webpages with Eloquence, the paragraph reading style setting had no effect. This has been resolved. 
* Read-To-End sometimes did not start correctly on some laptops. This problem has been fixed. 

### Office 
* The Find dialog in Excel sometimes took a long time to open. This has been resolved. 
* We worked around a problem where bold, italic, underline, and other font properties could not be toggled in Microsoft Word if the cursor was at the end of a line. 
* When encountering certain elements in Microsoft Word forms, Window-Eyes common verbosity settings would change. This has been fixed. 
* Format alert did not work in Microsoft Word. Now it does. 
* We fixed a problem where column boundaries were not correctly reported in Microsoft Word when navigating with the arrow keys. 
* Microsoft changed how Office 2010 dialog and message boxes were displayed so Window-Eyes didn't treat them as dialogs. Now they work correctly. 
* We worked around an Outlook issue where it would freeze when new mail was automatically received while connected to an Exchange server. 
* Window-Eyes would not speak when moving between identical messages in Outlook 2010. This has been fixed. 
* The Page Navigation dialog did not work in PowerPoint. Now it does. 

### Braille 
* Switching profiles with braille didn't reset the braille configuration to the new profile setting. Now it does. 
* We cleaned up a user interface issue where the Mouse/WE Pattern entries failed to save on the Braille / Dot Patterns page. 
* Dots 7 and 8 are used to mark selected text, list items, etc. When switching to a different profile in the Set Active Profile dialog, these two dots would disappear. This problem has been fixed. 
* In the Braille Hot Key options, occurrences of "Grade 2 Braille" have been changed to "Contracted Braille." 
* If Automatically Load Set Files was set to yes with notification, the notifications did not appear in Quick Message Mode. Now they do. 

### Scripting 

NOTE: Please refer to the updated scripting manual for detailed information about all new objects, properties, methods, and enums. 

* Passing a variable by Reference Sometimes did not work. Now it should work every time. 
* We fixed a problem where saving a Set file programmatically would cause its hotkeys element to disappear. 
* We fixed a bug in Accessible.WatchEvent where it wouldn't actually start watching the events. This only affected external Apps that would try and register MSAA events. 
* We cleaned up a stability problem resulting from apps which freeze and unfreeze braille chunks. 
* Application.AttachWindowMessage sometimes did not work without a filter. Now it works correctly even with no filter. 
* The Application.Process property which returns a Process object that represents the Window-Eyes process was added. 
* A new Version object has been added. This object contains the following properties: 
	* Major 
	* Minor 
	* Build 
	* Revision 
	* String 

When applied to Window-Eyes, the Version object returns the following: 
	Major = 7 
	Minor = 5 
	Build = 1 
	Revision = 0 
	String = "7.5.1.0" 

* The Process.Version property has been added which returns a Version object for the current process. 
* The ClientInformation.Signature property has been added. This returns a new Signature object. A Signature object has 3 properties (IsValid, Publisher, and ThumbPrint). 
* The MatchCase parameter in FilterByClassAndModule and FilterByName was being ignored. This has been fixed. 
* The WEDialogs.AppUpdate method has been added. 
* When adding a WE file to an app association, it was only possible to add files which already existed. Now you can specify the name of a WE file, and if it does not exist, it will be created when the app is installed. 
* The Windows.FilterByName Case Sensitive Parameter was being ignored. This has been fixed. 
* The list of running apps in the App Manager was sorted based on each app's underlying filename. Now the list is sorted based on ClientInformation.ScriptName when available and by the filename if it is not. 
* When creating an app association, the Package Manager now forces the .WE file to be Unicode. 
* The security dialog in the app manager dialog failed to launch if an app was not selected. Now it does. 

# 7.5
Released: 3/16/2011

Cost: $175

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.5 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.5. This version of Window-Eyes introduces several new features, including full UIA support, support for Internet Explorer 9 and Windows Live Mail/Windows Live Messenger 2011, a brand new Remote Assistance feature, plus a completely re-designed (and much more intuitive) user interface. In addition to these new features, Window-Eyes 7.5 also boasts a significant performance increase in Microsoft Office products, along with many bug fixes and stability improvements. Window-Eyes 7.5 is also the first version of Window-Eyes to re-brand the notion of scripts into a more comfortable and recognizable term: apps. Window-Eyes Apps embrace a broader sense of usage by including everything from program enhancements that deal specifically with accessibility issues to more convenience-oriented apps and everything in between. While the underlying structure of these Window-Eyes enhancements is the same industry standard that has been in place since its inception, the concept of an app is more widely known, and the use of this term will help eliminate the confusion often associated with the more technical expression. 

### New User Interface 

The most striking difference between this version of Window-Eyes and all previous versions, is a complete redesign of the Window-Eyes user interface, also known as the Window-Eyes control panel. In the past, Window-Eyes settings were controlled by a simplistic system where individual settings had to be changed one at a time by entering and exiting various menus. Using a modernized dialog and common layout, the new Window-Eyes user interface allows you to control all settings in one window. 

The new Window-Eyes dialog consists of two panes: a left hand pane with a treeview representing the various categorized groups of settings, and a right hand property page which contains various controls representing individual options. When you select an item in the treeview, the property page will update dynamically with the controls relevant to the selected group. You can press the Tab key to move between controls in the property pane, as well as to move from the property pane to the treeview. Pressing F6 will also move focus back and forth between the tree view and the property pane. The dialog also consists of three menu items. File (for managing settings), Apps (for managing and accessing apps), and Help (for accessing documentation and other support services). 

Modified settings take effect immediately with the option to save the settings to disk permanently. Finding and changing settings is made easy through better organization along with more human readable names, plus additional features like being able to synchronize the Screen, Keyboard, and Mouse settings. Standard shortcuts such as Control-O to open settings, and Control-S to save, provide a level of consistency familiar among other programs. Much care has been taken to ensure an environment that is never without speech, including the ability to revert settings, an auditory prompt before switching synthesizers, and quick access to the factory default synthesizer. Beginner and Advanced options continue to exist, allowing more confident users access to all Window-Eyes settings, and keeping new users from being inundated with unnecessary options. Regardless of beginner or advanced settings, context sensitive help can be obtained at any time, on any of the controls in the Window-Eyes user interface, simply by pressing F1. Either a balloon tool tip with a brief synopsis of the selected control, or the Manual (opened to the relevant section), will be presented. In addition, all editable controls are value sensitive, meaning that if you try to type a letter into an edit box that only accepts numbers, Window-Eyes will notify you of the error, ensuring that only correct data is stored when settings are saved. 

In addition to a new layout, almost all Window-Eyes settings now have their own "scope." Scope refers to the range a setting should have, or, in other words, whether a setting should apply to a specific program or globally to all programs. In general, this behavior has existed in Window-Eyes for some time. Only now is the ability to apply a setting to all programs as simple as a push of a button. For example, you may wish to have the announcement of blank lines on for every application. You need only toggle that setting's scope to Global, and it will immediately take effect in all programs. Even individual hot keys can be made to function globally. You no longer need to use external utilities to convert sets back and forth simply to make a setting work in all programs. 

Set files have also undergone significant change. Instead of using cryptic file extensions like .000 or .001, set files now use a more meaningful file extension: .set. In addition, set files are now XML based, providing an open, standard language for storing Window-Eyes settings, as well as allowing for future extensibility. Window-Eyes also provides the ability to convert older set files to the new XML format using the Update Outdated Settings option in the File menu. During the conversion process, older set files will be backed up automatically. The Window-Eyes upgrade will automatically convert old set files to the newest format. Manually copied set files can be updated using the Update Outdated Settings in the Window-Eyes File menu. 

A complete description of the new user interface can be found in the new Window-Eyes manual. In an effort to increase readability and minimize technical babble, the Window-Eyes manual has been drastically reduced in size while continuing to maintain high quality content. In addition, the level of documentation relates to the user interface. In other words, if only the beginner settings are shown in the Window-Eyes control panel, then only the beginner documentation (relating to those settings) will be provided. If the advanced settings are shown, then advanced documentation will be provided. You can access the manual at any time by opening Window-Eyes with Control-Backslash, pressing Alt-H for Help, D for Documentation, then M for Manual. 

Window-Eyes 7.5 is also the first version of Window-Eyes to re-brand the notion of scripts into a more comfortable and recognizable term: apps. Window-Eyes Apps embrace a broader sense of usage by including everything from program enhancements that deal specifically with accessibility issues to more convenience-oriented apps and everything in between. While the underlying structure of these Window-Eyes enhancements is the same industry standard that has been in place since its inception, the concept of an app is more widely known, and the use of this term will help eliminate the confusion often associated with the more technical expression. 

### UIA 

Window-Eyes 7.5 now provides full support for UI Automation (commonly referred to as UIA), a technology developed by Microsoft to provide assistive technology products with standard means to access and control parts of a program's user interface. UIA is similar to MSAA, but contains much richer information. While UIA is a new technology, applications like Visual Studio 2010 (as well as applications built with Visual Studio 2010) are already putting it to use. 

### Remote Assistance 

Remote Assistance support is available for Windows Vista and Windows 7 (both 32-bit and 64-bit are supported). Remote Assistance for Windows XP will be forthcoming in a free, future upgrade. To start a Remote Assistance session (as the helpee), select the Ask for Help item under Help -> Remote Assistance. Make note of the 6-digit password provided, and contact a person from whom you want to receive assistance (the helper). They will then select the Offer Help option under Help -> Remote Assistance, enter their name and the 6-digit password you provided them. After they choose to connect, you will receive a confirmation to allow the helper to have access to your computer (the name they entered will be presented in the confirmation dialog). 

When a successful connection is made, the Remote Assistance screen on the helper's side will go full screen (where all key strokes will be sent to the helpee's machine), and speech will automatically be ported to the helper's synthesizer. Note that the synthesizer is not changed to match the person asking for help. The person receiving help will hear speech with their same synth and the person helping will receive speech through their own synthesizer. In other words, the synthesizers do not have to match. When the helper is done assisting, the connection can be terminated by pressing Alt-Tab to the Remote Assistance dialog, and selecting the Cancel Help Request button. Both the helper, and helpee, can choose to terminate the connection at any time.

While connected, and full screen, the helper may choose to press Control-Alt-Break to switch from full screen to windowed mode. Once in windowed mode, the helper can access their machine resources like normal. Alt-tabbing back to the Remote Assistance dialog, and pressing Control-Alt-Break again will switch from windowed mode back to full screen. In windowed mode, the following hot keys can be used to provide full screen functionality:

* ALT+PAGE UP: Switch between programs from left to right
* ALT+PAGE DOWN: Switch between programs from right to left
* ALT+INSERT: Cycle through the programs in most recently used order
* ALT+HOME: Display the Start menu
* CTRL+ALT+BREAK: Switch the client computer between a window and a full screen
* ALT+DELETE: Display the Windows menu
* CTRL+ALT+Minus sign (-): Place a snapshot of the entire client window area on the Terminal server clipboard and provide the same functionality as pressing ALT+PRINT SCREEN on a local computer (ALT+PRT SC)
* CTRL+ALT+Plus sign (+): Place a snapshot of the active window in the client on the Terminal server clipboard and provide the same functionality as pressing PRINT SCREEN on a local computer (PRT SC)

### Virtual Braille 

In addition to the Virtual RDP and Virtual Citrix speech synthesizers that have been available for Terminal Services and Citrix, Window-Eyes 7.5 now offers the choice of a Virtual Braille display. When enabled, Window-Eyes will send data from the remote connection to a locally connected Braille display, providing complete Braille output. 

### Miscellaneous 
* Window-Eyes 7.5 provides support for the current private builds of Internet Explorer 9. 
* Enhanced support for both Windows Live Mail and Windows Live Messenger 2011, including an updated Windows Live Mail app which now ships by default with all Window-Eyes installations. 
* We have made significant strides in increasing the speed with which Window-Eyes navigates all Word documents, and Outlook 2007/Outlook 2010 messages, specifically those with tables and table of contents. 
* All factory set files have been converted to the new XML set file format. In addition, antiquated set files have been removed, and all existing set files have updated documentation. 
* Context sensitive help (Control-Shift-/) and the key describer (Insert-1) have both been updated to reflect the new UI changes. 
* If the rate was modified during a Read to End (using the U/D keys), Window-Eyes will now restore the rate settings to what they were before the Read to End began. 
* Selecting a Braille display that is not physically connected or connected but not responding, will still allow you to navigate through Braille options, and interact with the display through scripting (which you normally wouldn't be able to do without a physical connection). 
* A new hot key called "App Status Rotor" (Undefined by default) has been added to the Miscellaneous hot keys. This hot key will rotor the app status between Off, On and Manual. 
* The Caps Lock key will now, by default, emulate the insert key when used as a modifier. When pressed and released by itself, it will still act as a caps lock. This makes the new laptop layout more intuitive, especially considering keyboards either missing insert keys, or that have insert keys that are difficult to get to. This option can be disabled globally using the option under Keyboard -> Special Keys. 

## Enhancements Between Window-Eyes 7.5 and Window-Eyes 7.5 Beta 1

### UI
* We fixed a problem where you were unable to modify the radio buttons under General -> Startup Options.
* The list of Braille displays is now alphabetized. 
* We fixed a problem where the list of Braille displays would be appended to over and over when you entered and exited the Window-Eyes control panel with Devices -> Braille Displays selected.
* The Association -> Current Association portion of the Window-Eyes control panel has been modified. We removed the radio buttons and replaced them with a combo box. We also added a Save and Associate button to make the new association an on-demand setting, rather than something that happened automatically.
* We fixed a problem where the App Manager dialog would lose focus when disabling or restarting an app.
* We fixed some problems relating to the cursor in Browse Mode in Internet Explorer 9, including reading the current line.
* The "Save to Disk" button has been changed to "Save Settings" to match the option in the File menu.
* Added button shortcuts to our UI. This includes all buttons except for the program and global scope toggle buttons. 
* When in the read only edit box under General -> Startup Options, both Control-S and Alt-S (to save settings) would say "Unable to save file". This problem has been resolved.

### Web/Email
* We fixed a problem in Internet Explorer 9 where multi-line edit boxes were not reading correctly when either reviewing or editing text.
* We fixed a problem where indexes would still read in Thunderbird, even after disabling the index verbosity option. 
* In Thunderbird, index information is now provided in the message list for both threaded and un-threaded views.
* When arrowing through text in Thunderbird and Firefox, Window-Eyes could hang on certain kinds of text. This problem has been resolved. 

### Miscellaneous
* If a UIA enabled application did not respond to our request to unhook from UIA when shutting down, it would cause Window-Eyes to hang until the application responded or closed. We have worked around this limitation. 
* We have fixed several stability issues and memory leaks. Thank you to everyone who continues to send in Window-Eyes Error Reports. Window-Eyes stability, reliability, and performance is largely due to your continued input.
* We fixed a problem where Say Blank did not say, "blank" on web pages when the appropriate verbosity option was enabled. 
* Enabling the Key Describer could cause Special Keys to be enabled/spoken. This problem has been resolved.
* All Tip of the Day messages have been updated to reflect the new Window-Eyes environment.
* When a a read-only edit box gets focus, Window-Eyes will now read up to 5K of text automatically. 
* We fixed a problem where hot keys containing F1 could not be captured in Window-Eyes
* We fixed a problem where bringing up the Find dialog (or other Window-Eyes dialogs) could cause Window-Eyes to hang.

### Braille
* In the Programs and Features control panel, the date contained question marks in Braille. This problem has been resolved.
* We have added support for the latest Alva displays. 
* We fixed a problem where read-to-end in Microsoft Word was very slow with Braille enabled (especially with Grade 2).
* Typing in edit boxes with Braille would occasionally cause hangs. This problem has been resolved.
* We fixed a problem where the full path of a selected tree view item would not show up correctly in Braille. 

### Apps
* All GW Micro apps have been modified to check for updates on launch. To avoid a plethora of update dialogs, the GW Micro toolkit has been altered to provide a single indication that app updates are available. When you confirm this notification, you will be taken to the Window-Eyes Add/Remove Apps dialog where you can choose to update all apps at once, or individual apps at a time. This provides a much more streamlined approach to app updates.
* We fixed a problem where external Apps in Vista and above could cause Window-Eyes to crash. 
* If you canceled out of the Quick Start Wizard, some settings like baud rate and stop bits would get messed up. This problem has been resolved.
* Duxbury, IEEnhance, iTunes are now part of the factory default apps. 
* We fixed a GPF that would occur when accessing the Title property of some windows in a Windows collection.
* The Strings method was not accepting UNC file names. This problem has been resolved.
* We resolved a problem where Key Label dictionary file names were not returned correctly through the KeyLabelDictionary object.

## Enhancements Between Window-Eyes 7.5 Beta 1 and Window-Eyes 7.2 

### Email 
* Thunderbird 3.1 changed how it indicates links between editing a message and reviewing a message. As a result, Window-Eyes would get confused when you focused a link. Now it works as expected. 
* In Thunderbird 3.1, Browse Mode would come on when replying to a message. This has been fixed. 

### Office 
* Navigating through Word documents is now substantially faster, especially in documents containing table of contents and/or tables. 
* We fixed a rare problem where the inbox of Outlook 2010 would not speak. 
* We fixed a problem where if both speech and Braille index and count verbosity options were enabled, then the index of the tab control in any Office ribbon for Braille would come out doubled. So instead of seeing "1 7" you would see "11 77". 
* Window-Eyes now correctly reads the treeviews in Microsoft Office installs. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes could go catatonic during an Office install. 
* We fixed a few OSM issues brought out on some specific video cards when using Microsoft Access and Windows 7. 
* Several of the spin (also known as up/down) controls in Outlook (encountered when editing or reviewing appointments) weren't reading correctly or showing up in Braille. This problem has been resolved. 
* In the Word Paragraph dialog (Alt, H P G), the line spacing combo box wasn't reading correctly. This problem has been resolved. 
* In Word 2010, the Styles pane (Control-Alt-Shift-S) would not read as you arrowed through the styles. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where memory usage would continue to grow when using Word. This would cause instability after working in Word for a long period of time. 
* We fixed a problem where cells in Excel would be accidentally selected based on their overlapped status. 
* Window-Eyes now supports Arabic/Hebrew in Word. 
* We fixed a problem where lines could be clipped or silenced in Word and Outlook. 

### Braille 
* If Auto Route cursor was enabled, and focus was on a control with a cursor, and a quick message came up, you would not be able to navigate through the quick message. This has been resolved. 
* If Auto Route cursor was disabled, the cursor would incorrectly move when navigating with the Braille display. 
* In Windows Explorer (under Windows 7 only) Braille would show question mark characters around dates and times. This problem has been resolved. 

### Miscellaneous 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would crash upon launch after installing the Terminal Services role under Windows Server 2008 Service Pack 2. 
* Window-Eyes now communicates with tree view controls directly, meaning their contents should always be 100 percent accurate. 
* In Windows 7, under the Wireless Devices feature in the Notification Area, the check box option to connect automatically wouldn't speak when it was focused (nor would the connect button). This problem has been resolved. Due to a Microsoft bug, the check box will always report checked. They also made the text "Check Box" part of the check box name, meaning Window-Eyes will speak "check box" twice. 
* We fixed a problem caused by a bug in the latest Flash player that would cause Internet Explorer to crash. We have reported this issue to Adobe, and have worked around the problem for now. 
* When launching Window-Eyes, you could receive a large number of script errors. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem of Window-Eyes not starting automatically even though the Startup Options were set correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would get stuck in "downloading page" mode. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would lock up when using Braille and the mouse to review clips. 
* If you redraw the screen (using Insert-Backslash), Window-Eyes will reset the active synthesizer. In the past, redrawing the screen would only reset the synthesizer speech parameters. Now the synthesizer is stopped and restarted. 

### Scripting 

NOTE: Please refer to the updated scripting manual for detailed information about all new objects, properties, methods, and enums. 

* Added Accessibles.FilterByRoleAndState method. 
* Added BrailleTable.Filename 
* Added Braille.ShowExtraSpacing (BrailleOptions.ShowExtraSpacing is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.SpeechBoxModeCharacteLimit (BrailleControlInformation.SpeechBoxModeCharacterLimit is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.SeparatorDotPattern (BrailleControlInformation.SeparatorDotPattern is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.LineModeRightIndicatorDotPattern (BrailleControlInformation.LineModeRightIndicatorDotPattern is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.LineModeLeftIndicatorDotPattern (BrailleControlInformation.LineModeLeftIndicatorDotPattern is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.LineModeIncludeDataIndicators (BrailleControLInformation.LineModeIncludeDataIndicators is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.BrailleWindow (BrailleSettings.BrailleWindow is now deprecated) 
* Added Braille.UseGraphicSeparator 
* Added Braille.Tracking property to indicate the cursor the Braille is following. 
* Added Key.Insert 
* Added Mouse.OnMoveEx, Mouse.OnButtonUpEx, Mouse.OnButtonDownEx, and Mouse.OnWheel. 
* Added Speech.CharacterName, Speech.Phonetic, and Speech.Spell methods. 
* Added Window.Settings2, Settings2, SetFile.Scope, SetFileScope, and Hotkey.Scope property to support the new ability to make most set file settings global or program specific. 
* Added Text.PriorCharacterStatic, Text.CharacterStatic, Text.NextCharacterstatic, Text.PriorWordStatic, Text.WordStatic, Text.NextWordStatic, Text.PriorClipStatic, Text.ClipStatic, and Text.NextClipStatic. 
* Added the UpDownEventInfo object, which provides the position and delta information of an up/down control. 
* Key.RequiredModifiers is now read/write. 
* Application.RunInSystemTray is now read/write. 
* Added mbNone to the Mousebutton enum. 
* Added MouseWheelDirection enum. 
* Added hkScriptStatusRotor to the HotkeyID enum 
* Added SpecialKeySettings.EnableCapsLockAsInsertKey. 
* If an external script didn't register itself, Window-Eyes would crash on exit. This problem has been resolved. 
* Script.CommonFileDialog now runs in it's own thread to avoid sluggishness and deadlocks when hooking using it along with Keyboard.OnKeyboardUp or Keyboard.OnKeyboardDown. 
* We now verify parameters passed to methods and events. This means you will now get an error if you attempt to, say, pass an Object when a Bool is expected. 
* When you stop a script, and the script doesn't respond in a reasonable amount of time (because it may be stuck in an infinite loop, for example), Window-Eyes will now kill the process (for external scripts) or the thread (for internal scripts) to ensure the script really stops. 
* The MenuLevel property is back to working. Note there is no longer an intermediate setting. So if you read or set and the value is intermediate then it gets switched to advanced. 
* We fixed a problem where scripts running with errors would be stopped when the Script Manager dialog was opened or updated. 
* We have tweaked the .WEPM file extension in an effort to keep registry cleaners from thinking that it's clutter. Also, on launch of Window-Eyes, if there is no "All Users" association for the .WEPM extension, one will be made for the current user. 
* The Menu.Enabled was not working correctly. Technically, Enabled and Grayed are two separate properties, but since there's no reason why you would Gray an option yet leave it Enabled, or why would you disable a menu item but not gray it, the Grayed and Enabled property are the same but opposite. In other words, if you set Grayed to True, Enabled is automatically set to False. Conversely, if you set Enabled to True, Grayed is automatically set to False. 
* For embedded scripts, Window-Eyes now creates Scripting.Dictionary and Scripting.FileSystemObject objects (created with CreateObject) in the Window-Eye's process, meaning the objects will now run much faster. All other COM objects are created out of process in order to keep their integrity levels at medium (as they should be). 
* When stopping all scripts (either by exiting Window-Eyes, switching profiles, using the App Status Rotor, or installing a package that requires all scripts be restarted), Window-Eyes no longer displays any script error dialogs.. 
* We fixed a problem when setting Window.Rectangle. Child windows would get moved because incorrect coordinates were being sent internally. 
* If no window existed when attempting to get ScreenPoint.Window, an error would occur. Now, Window-Eyes returns Nothing. 
* We fixed several cases where Window-Eyes would return a NULL string pointer from methods. With VBScript, there is no way to determine this scenario, and it could cause issues. Now, in embedded scripts, Window-Eyes will return an empty string instead of a NULL string. Non embedded scripts will still receive the NULL string (because they can handle them). 
* When designing XML dialogs, you can now specify "helptext", "helpcontext" and "helpfile" for any focusable element (and for whole groups). All three attributes are described in the General Attributes section of the Designing Custom User Interfaces section of the Scripting manual. If you specify the appropriate attributes, then pressing F1 will activate the specified help section of a specified help file, or display the help in tooltip text, automatically. Nothing is required in the script itself. 
* Synthesizer.UseSpecifiedSpeechParameters did not work correctly. This problem has been resolved. In addition, Synthesizer.UseEngineSpecifiedSpeechParameters has been deprecated as it is no longer needed.

## 7.2
Released: 5/5/2010

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.2 

GW Micro is proud to announce the release of Window-Eyes 7.2. This version of Window-Eyes introduces full support for Microsoft Office 2010, significant speed enhancements, and some serious stability improvements. We take our motto of performance, stability, and reliability seriously, and this version of Window-Eyes demonstrates that commitment. 

* Window-Eyes now fully supports both 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Office 2010. One of the more significant features of Window-Eyes support for Office 2010 is UIA support for the Outlook 2010 message list views (such as the Inbox). 
* Several performance enhancements have been made. Window-Eyes 7.2 now launches much faster when using Windows Vista or greater. Navigating list views is now much faster. In addition, cases like tabbing between address fields in Outlook Express have also been sped up. Each of these speed enhancements, coupled with the dramatic speed increase provided by the Window-Eyes Eloquence Performance Patch (now fully integrated), make Window-Eyes 7.2 much more efficient than previous versions, especially under the newer operating systems. 
* Added Braille.DisplayMode as a read/write property. This sets or returns an item from the new BrailleDisplayMode enum (bdmStructured, bdmLine, and bdmSpeechBox), allowing you to retrieve and set the current Braille display mode. 
* Added bhkRotorDisplayMode, bhkLeftOneCell, and bhkRightOneCell to the BrailleHotkeyID enum. This means you can now execute these hotkeys with the ExecuteBrailleHotkey method. 
* The Control.Id property is now read and write. Previously it was read only. 

### Miscellaneous 
* We fixed a problem where, upon booting, you were no longer able to bring up any windows or launch any applications. Thanks to Don Hert for lending us a machine to resolve this problem. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would behave very slowly after logging in. Thanks to Chris Grabowski for lending us a machine to resolve this problem. 
* We fixed a problem where .NET checked list boxes were not reading correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where edit boxes would not gain focus correctly when turning Browse mode off on websites like bookshare.org. 
* Occasionally, on some machines, when alt-tabbing between applications, Window-Eyes would hang. This problem has been resolved. 
* We have fixed several general OSM related issues, along with specific problems in some applications, like IRead. 
* Resuming from standby mode in Window XP would cause Window-Eyes not to start automatically (if that option was enabled). This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the iTunes store was not loading in Browse Mode. You must have the latest version of iTunes for the store to work properly, as Apple resolved several accessibility issues on their side as well. 
* The suggestion lists in various Office spell check dialogs were not reading when they gained focus. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where some system services (such as the print spooler) would not start on some machines when Window-Eyes was installed. 
* Both Office and Windows 7 ribbons should now always work. Occasionally, they would not. 
* We fixed a problem where Windows 7 Explorer windows would speak all headers before speaking the focused item. Also, to more closely match existing listview behavior, Windows 7 list views now: 
	* Add "x of y items selected" to speak summary for Windows 7 items view 
	* Remove "of y" from individual rows in Windows 7 items view on speak summary 
* Using Windows Vista, or greater, if you set Eloquence to use the default sound card, and it changed, Eloquence would not adjust itself automatically. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the Polish version of Window-Eyes would stop responding when copying files with Total Commander. 
* We fixed a problem where the top/bottom index was repeated under Windows 7. 
* If a track bar was contained in a group box with a name of 32 or more characters, the value of the track bar would repeat when it gained focus. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would lose track of module names under 64-bit Windows 7. 
* We resolved some issues with Prior/Next Character and Word in edit boxes. 
* Spelling non-ANSI characters phonetically resulted in unexpected speech. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where every other character was being skipped when using the mouse to read under Windows Vista or greater. 
* We fixed a problem where moving the mouse by character when renaming a file in Windows Explorer would not read under Windows Vista or greater. 
* Many times, under Windows 7, Window-Eyes would not see the mouse pointer move or notice mouse clicks from the physical mouse. This has been resolved. 
* We fixed a significant memory leak that caused Window-Eyes to consume more and more memory over time. Now, the total Window-Eyes memory usage is much smaller, and will no longer continue to increase unabated. 
* We fixed several, general OSM corruption issues. 
* Recently, we've seen systems that set the Window-Eyes mirror driver as disabled in the Device Manager, even after a successful installation. This causes Window-Eyes to indicate that it cannot communicate with the display driver on launch, and then immediately exit. Window-Eyes will now check to see if the mirror driver is disabled on launch, and if so, enable it before trying to attach to it. 
* We fixed a regression caused by the ZoomText compatibility fix where an RDP session on Server 2008 (and possibly others) would cause a BSOD when you logged in remotely into a session that previously had WE running locally. 
* We fixed a problem where Windows 7 would not update the display when Window-Eyes was loaded in a fresh login through an RDP session. 
* The Window-Eyes mouse search feature was not recognizing case of non ASCII letters. This problem has been resolved. 

### Scripting 
* Window.CurrentUserWindowID and Window.CurrentHyperactiveWindowID were always using information from the active set file instead of the set file associated to the window being queried. This problem has been resolved. 
* Performing actions on a variable set to Keyboard.Keys would cause Window-Eyes to become unstable. This problem has been resolved. 
* If you hooked an MSAA event, and filtered it by process, you wouldn't get any events. This problem has been resolved. 
* If UAC is disabled, you can now successfully obtain an Application object using GetObject for any application. Previously, because the application was running at high integrity, GetObject would fail. Now you will only experience this when UAC is on, and you are attempting to use GetObject for an application that is running at high integrity (which is by design). 
* If a script placed itself in the Window-Eyes Scripts Menu pull-down and within its own dialog menu at the same time, you might have problems accessing the menu items, or setting menu item attributes (like checked). This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the CursorKey object passed to an onCursorKey event handler would not execute correctly. 
* GlobalSettings.EnhancedSupportForCurrentWordDocument did not return the right value, and you were not able to set it to anything. Now it works as it should. 
* There was a problem with XML dialogs that used menus while also using menu options from the Window-Eyes Script Menus pull-down. At best it would cause the Script Menus object to become permanently disabled until you restarted Window-Eyes. At worse it would cause Window-Eyes to crash. This has all been fixed. 
* We fixed a problem where LoadClassInformation would only load for objects with events (i.e. objects that implement IProvideClassInfo). Now it should work for any object, even one that's not a coclass, so long as the server implements ITypeInfo/ITypeLib. 
* We fixed a problem where the Type property value for certain window (status bars, up/down controls, etc.) were not calculated correctly. In addition, the scripting type enum was broken; Window.Type did not match the documentation or the IDL file. Everything has since been cleaned up, including the documentation. 
* Fixed bug where MSAAEventSource.BlockEvent would fail if you passed it a process object in a variable. 
* Synthesizer.Speak was still filtering the text before sending it to the synthesizer. Now this method will no longer filter the text, allowing you to send commands directly to the selected speech device. 
* The Clips.SearchText method excluded labeled graphics. This problem has been resolved. 
* The SetFile.Save method would throw an error instead of saving anything. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where an error would occur when obtaining dictionary information from a set file that did not have a dictionary associated to it. 
* If you try and change any property of a SetFile object but the object is no longer valid then we silently go on instead of throwing an error. 
* If you try to save a set file with something like Window.ActiveSettings.Save, and the file cannot be saved because, say, the file is read only, you now get an error. 
* The ExecuteHotkey method never worked for the hkWordEnhanced, hkOfficeAttributesStatus and hkOfficeSmartTab. Now they do. Also, the hkOfficeAttributesStatus needs to know which status to speak, so the second parm in ExecuteHotkey (KeyAction) is used to indicate which attribute by specifying a value from the OfficeAttributeStatus enum. 
* We fixed a problem where the ExecuteHotkey method did not validate the value it was given. 
* At times, reclassing a window by setting the Window.Type would not work. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a memory leak caused by hooking some MSAA events. 
* Calling Mouse.ToFocus is now silent. 
* We fixed a problem where you were unable to set the sound card through scripting. 
* We fixed a problem where the BrailleHotkeys collection didn't work and caused stability problems. 
* Calling ExecuteHotkey with hkPriorWord would always result in the word being spelled. Now it correctly speaks the word, and the additional optional parameters function as expected. 
* The Keyboard.RegisteredHotkeys collection was not indexed; you had to use For Each to enumerate them. Now they have an index, ranging from 1 to the collection's count. 
* If you tried to get the NativeObjectModel object for a window that didn't support this property, you would get an error. Now it will return Nothing. 
* The default value for the returns property on read-only, multi-line edit boxes is now "no" (in scripting XML) since a return isn't going to do anything in a read-only edit box anyway. 

### Braille 
* Using Line Mode in Notepad with the right combination of font and text size could cause the display to show blank lines instead of lines with text. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille would not track correctly in Word 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where Windows Mail would become sluggish after arrowing quickly using line mode. 
* Both 6 and 8 dot Braille is now indicated for all languages in the Braille Translation Tables dialog. 
* In structured mode, Window-Eyes now displays the letter s on UIA list view items that are selected. 
* In Microsoft Word forms, as you tabbed between form elements, Braille did not display anything. This problem has been resolved. 
* When selecting items using Windows Explorer under 64-bit Windows 7, there was no indication of the selection on the Braille display. This problem has been resolved. 

We have added support for the following Braille displays: 

* PegasusDW 
* VarioPro 
* Audiodata BZ 
* Audiodata BM 

### Set File Changes 

You will need to re-install these sets from the Set File Manager to load the new versions. 

* Firefox 
* Internet Explorer 
* Kurzweil 1000 
* Office 2000 
* Office 2003 
* Office XP 
* Office 2007 
* Office 2010 
* Outlook Express 
* Windows Explorer 

### 7.11
Released: 9/25/2009

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.11 

GW Micro is proud to present Window-Eyes 7.11. Continuing on the success of previous versions, Window-Eyes 7.11 maintains the highest expected standard of stability, performance, reliability, and security. The goal of Window-Eyes 7.11 is to provide resolutions to several minor issues reported since the previous release. While Window-Eyes 7.11 contains no new features, the numbers of error resolutions alone make it a substantial upgrade for stability and reliability. 

### Microsoft Office 
* If the task pane was open in Microsoft Word, and you pressed an attribute shortcut key (i.e. Control-U for underline), and the Word task pane was open, you would not hear the attribute announcement. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the PowerPoint Speed Transition combo box and the controls in the Task Pane were not reading. 
* Document Specific Settings were not working in Word 2007. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes now reads the Office 2007 richedit/pulldowns (such as the font name and font size) correctly. 
* Check boxes in Word forms would not speak the new state when toggled with the space bar. This problem has been resolved. 

### Internet 
* We fixed a problem where Firefox 3 combo boxes could double speak out of browse mode. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes was not recognizing markup in Benetech books (and other XHTML documents in Firefox 3.5). 

### Scripting 
* We fixed a problem where Keyboard.OnCursorKey was incorrectly firing for non-cursor keys. 
* Performing a Mouse.Click with a parameter indicating a double click would only perform a single click. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes is now more efficient in determining if a script is Unicode or not. 
* If you used submenus in a Script menu, the count of menu items would be off. If you then used a separator, for example, it would show up one item before it should. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where ClientPoint.WindowPoint was not working. 
* We have changed the enum values of BrailleAttributeMarking to match the set file values. 
* We fixed a problem creating certain objects on 64-bit operating systems. 
* Once ClientInformation.UILanguage was set to a specific language, either through a script or automatically by Window-Eyes, you were not able to reset it back to -1 as the documentation indicated. Now you can. 
* Filtering a static Clips collection could cause a deadlock. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where a plethora of script errors would display after restarting, logging in, and launching Window-Eyes (automatically or manually). 
* BrailleSettings.BrailleOptions was missing the property for ShowExtraSpacing. This problem has been resolved. 
* The optional FirstPress parameter of a script hotkey callback was not always accurate. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where you could not enable/disable, or gray/ungray menu items without having the menu item disappear. 
* Renaming a listbox list item would cause the previous list item to be selected. This problem has been resolved. 
* InsertString now functions correctly in Microsoft Office application. 
* We fixed a problem where you would get "Unspecified Error" errors when shutting down some scripts. 
* There were a few browse mode verbosity settings that were not returning the correct setting with scripting. This problem has been resolved. 

### Miscellaneous 
* We fixed a problem where the top level menus in Audible Manager were not speaking. 
* Moving the mouse between lines of text in Notepad could cause Window-Eyes to get confused. This problem has been resolved. 
* 16-bit applications using standard 16-bit edit boxes were not reading correctly. Now they are. 
* We fixed a typo in the command line help you get when running wineyes /? 
* You can now launch Window-Eyes and ZoomText in any order on either 32-bit or 64-bit platforms. 
* Window-Eyes Error Reporting continues to prove an incredible resource for being able to solve problems quickly, thereby increasing overall stability further and further. This version of Window-Eyes contains over 50 resolutions for submitted reports. You help make Window-Eyes the most stable and reliable screen reader available today. Thank you!

## 7.1
Released: 6/26/2009

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.1 

GW Micro is proud to offer Window-Eyes 7.1. Window-Eyes 7.1 builds on the success of previous versions, maintaining an expected high standard of stability, performance, reliability, and security, even as additional hardware and software platforms are supported. Support for 64-bit operating systems, Microsoft's upcoming Windows 7, and enhanced Braille and Scripting support are some of the main features that Window-Eyes 7.1 offers. You'll also notice quite a bit of fine-tuning, including better standard edit box support, and better access to menus, creating a richer, more accurate computing experience. Keep reading to learn more about Window-Eyes 7.1, and what it can do for you. 

Window-Eyes 7.1 introduces support for 64-bit versions of Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008, and Windows 7. 64-bit support is identical to 32-bit. In other words, all of the functionality, performance and stability you expect from Window-Eyes will exist regardless of the operating system you choose to use. 

Window-Eyes 7.1 includes support for the latest, upcoming Microsoft operating system: Windows 7. Both 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows 7 are supported. 

The following is a complete list of supported operating systems using Window-Eyes 7.1: 

* 32-Bit: 
	* Windows 2000 
	* Windows 2000 Server 
	* Windows XP Home 
	* Windows XP Professional 
	* Windows XP Media Center 
	* Windows Server 2003 
	* Windows Vista Home Basic 
	* Windows Vista Home Premium 
	* Windows Vista Business 
	* Windows Vista Enterprise 
	* Windows Vista Ultimate 
	* Windows 7 Home Basic 
	* Windows 7 Home Premium 
	* Windows 7 Professional 
	* Windows 7 Enterprise 
	* Windows 7 Ultimate 
* 64-Bit: 
	* Windows Vista Home Basic 
	* Windows Vista Home Premium 
	* Windows Vista Business 
	* Windows Vista Enterprise 
	* Windows Vista Ultimate 
	* Windows Server 2008 
	* Windows 7 Home Basic 
	* Windows 7 Home Premium 
	* Windows 7 Professional 
	* Windows 7 Enterprise 
	* Windows 7 Ultimate 
* All service packs and maintenance releases of the aforementioned operating systems are also supported. 
* Window-Eyes now provides support for Internet Explorer 8, and Thunderbird 3. 
* Thanks to our close relationship with Apple and their commitment to resolving accessibility issues, we continue to provide enhanced support for iTunes. 
* Window-Eyes now communicates directly with standard edit controls rather than relying on the OSM to retrieve text. This is an enormous improvement. As in Microsoft Word, Window-Eyes now boasts 100% text-accuracy 100% of the time in standard edit box controls. 
* We've completely re-designed the way that Window-Eyes speaks menus and menu items. Menu tracking should now be much more accurate in more applications than before. 
* We've increased processing power when using SAPI and Eloquence, which should eliminate any choppy or cut up speech. Note that this will not affect the built in Eloquence pauses. If you're using Windows Vista or Windows 7, you should make sure you have the absolute latest sound card drivers from your sound card manufacturer to help alleviate any software speech sluggishness. 
* The list box speed up that existed in 7.0 has been ported over to combo boxes, making them much faster. 
* When moving by character via the cursor, we now say, "Tab" when coming upon a tab. If we don't know how to speak something, we'll say, "Unicode blah" instead of speaking nothing. 
* Added a /? command line parameter to wineyes.exe which displays a message box containing all available command line options. 
* Added Status Window to the types of reclass possibilities in the Reclass dialog. 

### Scripting (General) 
* We have added the ability to check for, download, and install script updates from the Add Remove Packages dialog, complete with progress bars when checking and downloading. This means you can go to one place and check for updates for all your scripts at one time. This should make upgrading scripts much more intuitive for beginner users (and even some advanced users). Just select the new Check for Updates button in the Add or Remove Packages dialog. This brings up a new dialog that lists all of your outdated scripts, their version numbers, and the versions that are available from Script Central. You can then either select the ones you really want to update and activate the Update button or just activate the Update All button to update them all. The Show Package Details checkbox is used to indicate whether you want to see the package details if they exist for each script as they are installed. If a script has a license, you will be shown that no matter what. If there are no licenses and you have the checkbox unchecked then it will all happen silently. 
* The Package Manager dialog has been redesigned a bit. Localized Language is now the first combo box, allowing for quick adjustment of all the other language dependent controls in the dialog. Also, you can now include a Script Name that will be used whenever information about the package is displayed (such as the Add/Remove Package dialog, the Update Package dialogs, etc.). The Package Preview and Package License dialogs will also use the package display name (if provided). 
* The two list boxes in the package manager dialog that list package files and associations are now listviews. This makes it much easier to select items. 
* When the Package Manager dialog first opens, the Add Files button is the default button. When the Create Package button becomes enabled, it will be made the default button. 
* When script packages are created and/or extracted, any read-only attributes on the files involved are removed. 
* Script packages are now compatible with foreign language characters. 
* We removed the message in the Package Manager that prompted the package creator to enter package details. They're not required, so now we don't pester. 
* Added a new column to the Script Manager dialog called Name. Name is the friendly name of the script if it exists (specified with ClientInformation.ScriptName), otherwise, it's the script file name. 
* A restart button has been added to the script error dialog. 
* You can use the commandline parameter /useStatusColors to have the Script Manager dialog display the status column using colors. This visual enhancement indicates running scripts in green, stopped scripts in a shade of read, running with errors a different shade of green, and so on. 
* Clicking on the list view headers in the Script Manager now sorts the columns. 

### Scripting (Object Model) 
* Added the ability for scripts to create standard menus in custom XML dialogs. This means your dialogs can now have menu items like, "File, Edit, View, etc," providing users with a more intuitive, recognizable, and comfortable way to access script options and other script information. 
* Addded the ability for scripts to create menus in the Window-Eyes Control Panel (under a new Script Menus pulldown). This provides an easy method for accessing script help, options, or whatever the script author wants to make available without having to enter the Script Manager dialog first, or use some hotkey (although both of those options are still available). 
* Added a Menu object which lets you access/modify custom menus (for both script dialogs and in the Window-Eyes control panel) and their items. 
* Clips collections (and, therefore, clips themselves) can now either be dynamic or static. The ability to create a static collection of clips means being able to traverse the clip information even if those clips disappear from the screen. This gives you the ability to take a snapshot in time without the fear of the clips going away from under you. To support the new static clips collection, new methods have been added to the Text object for line, sentence, and paragraph that make the returned clips collection static. More specifically, they are: SentenceStatic, ParagraphStatic, LineStatic, PriorSentenceStatic, NextSentenceStatic, PriorParagraphStatic, NextParagraphStatic, PriorLineStatic, and NextLineStatic. You'll notice when you get a normal clips collections (outside of the text object) you can still use the same methods/properties. 
* Added Application.AttachWindowMessage. AttachWindowMessage lets you monitor any window message. For example, say you want to know if a window has changed position. Since there is no Window object event that fires when that change happens, you can instead hook the WM_WINDOWPOSCHANGED window message using AttachWindowMessage, and receive notifications when the window you're interested in is moved. 
* Added Utilities.TypeName - This mimics the TypeName function in VBScript. This is useful for languages, like JScript, that have no decent method of determining the true type of an object. 
* Added Application.OnCursorKey. This event mimics the existing OnHotkey event, only for cursoring keys instead. This means you will get this event before the application sees the key (so you can do things ahead of time) and you'll get the event after the application sees the key but before Window-Eyes. You can choose to let Window-Eyes process the cursoring key, or perform your own actions instead. 
* Added Keyboard.RegisteredHotkeys and Keyboard.RegisteredHotkey - RegisteredHotkeys returns a collection of all registered hotkeys, regardless of what script registered them. RegisteredHotkey then has properties such as Key, FilterBy, and Script. 
* Added Script.ConnectObjectWithParameter and Script.ConnectEventWithParameter methods. 
* Added Application.LicenseType, and Application.CopyProtection to indicate those two properties of Window-Eyes. 
* Added Application.MenuActive to indicate whether or not a menu is active, and if so, whether or not it's a context menu. 
* Added Application.CurrentLocaleID which returns the current OS locale ID (i.e. 1033 for English (United States)) 
* ClientInformation.Overlap is now a read/write property. If you associated a script to an application whose initial overlap window was destroyed (such as MS Project, with an overlap splash screen that closes as the application launches), then you were unable to restart, stop, disable, or unload the script. Now, if the overlap is needed for any function, and it is found to no longer exist, another overlap for the application is automatically selected. This resolves the aforementioned problem. It is still possible, however, for the initial overlap window or subsequent overlap window to be invalid. To combat that problem, we made ClientInformation.Overlap read/write, meaning you can now set the Overlap for the application to any overlap you want as long as it is a true overlap and it is in the application's process. If you try to set it to a window that does not match that criteria, the change will be ignored. 
* Added CursorKeyAction.Execute which can be used to perform a given cursor key action. On a side note, the cursor key actions ckaOfficeSmartTab, ckaOfficeAttributeStatus, and ckaWordEnhanced can be executed as hotkeys hkOfficeSmartTab, hkOfficeAttributeStatus, and hkWordEnhanced. To allow this we added hkWordEnhanced, hkOfficeAttributeStatus, and hkOfficeSmartTab to the HotkeyID enum 
* Added Braille.UnicodeToDotPattern method, which takes a Unicode value and gives you back a string indicating the dot pattern of that character. 
* Added BrailleControlInformation.LineModeIncludeDataIndicators, LineModeLeftIndicatorDotPattern, LineModeRightIndicatorDotPattern, and SpeechBoxModeCharacterLimit. 
* Added StringToUnicodeBraille and DotPatternToUnicodeBraille methods to the Braille object. We've also deprecated DotPatternToUnicode in favor of the better named DotPatternToUnicodeBraille method. 
* Dialog.Control with no parameters now returns the control object for the dialog itself. 
* Added Process.Is64Bit which indicates if the process is 64-bit or 32-bit. 
* Added Clip.IsValid and Clip.IsStatic properties to indicate if a clip is valid and static (respectively). 
* Updated WindowEyesScriptingErrorCodes enum 
* Added menuSelection to the DialogEvent enum 
* Added MenuItemFlags, MenuActiveStatus, WindowEyesCopyProtection, and WindowEyesLicenseType enums 
* Added wtStatus to the WindowType enum, and support for status bar windows through scripting. 
* Added two treeview event enums: selectionChanging and itemExpanding. 
* Static text elements will now resize themselves automatically in scripting/XML dialogs, taking word wrap into account. 
* Optional parameters used as return values can (and must) now be passed as objects. For example, if you have a variable that you want to modify inside of a dialog proc, you have to pass that variable as a member of an object in the Dialog call, and not just as a variable itself. Refer to the DialogProc documentation for more information. 
* Added IsRunning property to the GWSpeak object. Note this object is different from the Window-Eyes Application object. You can use this property to determine if Window-Eyes (post 7.02) is actually running. For example: 

Set x = CreateObject("GWSpeak.Speak") If x.IsRunning Then ' Window-Eyes is running End If 

### Braille 
* Window-Eyes now provides three different Braille modes: Structured (the default that Window-Eyes always had), Line Mode, and Speech Box mode. In structured mode, only one control is displayed at a time. In Line Mode, the entire line of the active window will be displayed. For example, in the Run dialog, if the OK button has focus, the display will contain the OK, Cancel, and Browse buttons. You can select a routing key above any of the buttons to activate that control. You can use the Display Mode Rotor Braille Hotkey to rotor between all three modes. Less than, and greater than symbols will appear at the beginning of the display if additional text exists to the left or right, respectively, of what is currently shown on the display. Also note that Grade 2 Braille is disabled in line mode (as allowing it would not give you an accurate representation of exactly how things reside on the screen). When you rotor out of Line Mode, Grade 2 will be enabled again (assuming you had it enabled before entering Line Mode). 
* In Browse Mode, a single touch cursor will route to that specific position, and a double press will perform the default action. Pressing a touch cursor twice in rapid succession on a link will activate the link 
* Window-Eyes now supports Turkish Braille tables. 
* Added support for the APH Refreshabraille display. 

### Enhancements Between Window-Eyes 7.01 and Window-Eyes 7.1 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would cause applications that launch themselves multiple times (for example, some console applications) to run slowly. 
* Window-Eyes now does a much better job of determining the overlap window associated with an application. 
* If you selected a sound card other than the default for, say, the DECtalk Access 32 (Window-Eyes) synthesizer, and then changed to another synthesizer, when you went back to the DECtalk Access 32 (Window-Eyes), the sound card would be set back to the default. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where pressing Enter did not activate the correct button in the Key Label Dictionary dialog 
* We fixed a problem where Read to End would not stop in the correct location when pressing the Control key. 
* Window-Eyes is now much more accurate when reading field names for buttons, check boxes, and radio buttons. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would fail to operate correctly when a machine came out of Standby, Hibernation, or when exiting a screen saver, and being prompted for a password. 
* Window-Eyes would not shut down correctly when switching between Window-Eyes users. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes now supports static boxes that behave like links. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would not read focused items in places like Internet Explorer 8, and NOD32 4.0. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would GPF if we got a window create on a window with a null name. 
* On some machines, Window-Eyes would fail to launch, and instead display a message box stating something to the effect of, "Unable to find user's directory." This problem has been resolved. 
* Whenever a new .WE file was created (for example, by saving Context Sensitive Help, or reclassing a control), the file would get created as ANSI. Now it gets created as Unicode. 
* We fixed a problem where key label entries were not being removed, even when using the remove button in the key label dictionary dialog. 
* It was possible, with Before Startup enabled, for Window-Eyes to keep some system services from launching correctly. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where reading Window-Eyes path information from relevant environment variables, or the registry, to find the path to Window-Eyes or one of its parts, would cause issues when running Window-Eyes mobile on a system with a full copy of Window-Eyes installed (such as Insert-Tab not working in Internet Explorer). 
* We fixed a problem where you were unable to enter certain characters using non-English keyboard layouts. 
* The applications listed in the Document Specific Settings dialog were sometimes not determined correctly. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the registry entries for the Window-Eyes sounds in the Sound Control Panel were broken. These keys, however, will not be modified automatically if they are already incorrect. In other words, if you currently have this problem, you will need to manually fix each key, or remove the HKEY_CURRENT_USERAppEventsAppswineyes key, which will cause Window-Eyes to re-create them correctly the next time it runs. 
* We fixed a problem where you could execute the Load Set hotkey at the login screen, or other secure desktops. 
* The "Default" users directory name can now be localized. 
* We fixed a problem where you couldn't switch voices successfully when using the dedicated Eloquence synthesizer (even though you could by modifying the tone). 
* ANSI graphic dictionaries converted to Unicode would cause graphic labels to go missing. This problem has been resolved. 
* WE fixed a problem where the desktop could redraw over, and over, and over, and over, on Window-Eyes launch. 
* In Vista's start menu, if you searched for "c" and then arrow through the options, Window-Eyes was silent on the "group" names. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where some installation programs would not finish completely with Window-Eyes installed (even when Window-Eyes was not running). 
* If you set capitalization to Say Cap, and then typed in a password edit box, you would hear, "Cap star" for the shifted letters. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem that caused hook errors when running Window-Eyes with the latest ZoomText. 
* We resolved a problem in the Winamp Library that would cause a GPF. 
* Window-Eyes would not automatically restart under specific circumstances after a hibernation or suspension. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would not read the reminder field in Outlook 2007 when using the Up and Down Arrow keys. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would not read drop down and combo box choices if the combo box wasn't initially expanded. 
* We fixed a problem where arrowing up and down in the Lotus Notes Inbox was not working properly. 
* We fixed a problem where Next/Prior Character/Line/Word would not work in edit boxes. 
* We fixed some minor localization issues. 

### Set File Updates 

You will need to re-install these sets from the Set File Manager to load the new versions. 

* Notepad 
	* Added additional key labels such as Control-N, Control-O, Control-S, etc. 
	* Added additional cursoring keys such as home (character after), control-home (line), and f3 (line). 
	* Set the cursor delay to 1 under the general menu. 
	* Added application help when pressing control-shift-question. 
* Windows Explorer 
	* Shift-arrows and shift-control-arrows are now defined as cursoring keys to read selected text when editing file names. 

### Scripting 
* If you had a hotkey registered for a certain window and while that window had focus you went into a menu bar we left the hotkey active. Now the hotkey will not fire if you go into a menu from the focused control that had the hotkey registered to. 
* The Package Manager now remembers paths when creating a script package. 
* We fixed a problem where focus and activation would get lost when starting and stopping scripts in the Script Manager. 
* We fixed a deadlock that could occur when connecting to ClientInformation.OnShutdown. 
* We fixed a problem where the Clipboard.Text was getting cleared accidentally. 
* When restarting a script that was displaying a script error, Window-Eyes could potentially deadlock. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the Package Manager dialog would not gain activation when accessing it with Alt-Tab. 
* We fixed a problem where the registration of the external COM object thread wasn't happening correctly. 
* It was possible for a script to not successfully restart, but you'd still hear the restart message. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where ClientInformation.UILanguage was not getting set correctly if no language was set explicitly in the associated XML. 
* If an OnBlah event handler returned Nothing/Success, that meant it wanted to opt out of the replacement without copying the string. If multiple scripts did that, we would end up with NULL for the final string, effectively disabling speech. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where getting a usable DOMNode from a BrowseMode text line was less than successful. 
* OnError should no longer pass blank error descriptions. It now works like the script error dialog to lookup error descriptions. 
* The Text object's line, paragraph, and sentence now do a better job of setting the correct point used to obtain the text. 
* Scripts that are loaded by other scripts and then self-terminate are now correctly reported as stopped in the Script Manager. 
* We fixed a problem where EditBox.CharAtPoint was always returning 0. 
* Adding a key label entry to a key label dictionary was broken using the KeyLabelDictionary object's Add method. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes will now automatically close any script error dialog that is displayed when Window-Eyes is shutting down. 
* Window-Eyes no longer uses the OSM to obtain window types for controls in scripting dialogs. This is much more efficient and resolves an occasional timing problem where you could not access/modify dialog information (such as setting the window title), or any of a dialogs controls, during the dialog's OnCreate event. 
* There were times the filtering of MSAA events through ConnectEvent wasn't being used properly so you would get events outside of your filter. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where an application specific script could continue to run, even after the associated application was closed. 
* Braille.DotPattern will now return an error if no braille display is enabled. 
* We fixed a problem where Speech.Speak could be silent if Braille was on. 
* We resolved a problem where you could not install scripts under an operating system username using a non-Latin character. 
* The LoadedScripts object was not functioning correctly under Windows Vista. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the Lookup method of an ActiveCharacterDictionaries object would always return nothing, even when a valid entry existed. 
* If you passed ActiveWindow to a Dialog call, the dialog would be successfully parented to the active window. If you passed a variable that contained a copy of ActiveWindow, it would not work. This problem has been resolved. 
* When specifying a listview with checboxes in a scripting dialog, we now default to a state of no for all istview items. Also, the "none" property for checked didn't make sense, since you can press the space bar to clear it, then never get back to it. So we removed it. 
* We fixed some permission issues under Windows Vista in regards to CreateObject. 
* We have resolved all known issues with VB.NET external applications/scripts. 
* We fixed a problem where we were blocking some MSAA events for global scripts. 
* Scripting/XML dialogs are now always made active when shown. 
* We fixed a hang that would happen when trying to get version strings through scripting. 
* We fixed the "the remote server has gone away" script error on System Shutdown. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille.Translate would cause Window-Eyes to hang. 
* We fixed a problem where Hooking OnProcessCharacterDictionary would break punctuation. 
* BrailleDisplay.OnKey reports there are never any actions. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a memory leak in Screen.PixelColor. 

### Microsoft Office 
* The Outlook 2007 Calendar would not display the correct information if a message was open. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes can now use cursor keys in the font combo box of the Office ribbon. 
* In Outlook 2007, when changing panes using F6, Window-Eyes would not announce the name of the current folder. 

### Browse Mode 
* We fixed a problem where the default button would get lost when adding placemarkers. 
* Mozilla changed the way events are handled in frames between Firefox 2 and Firefox 3. Window-Eyes now accounts for that change. 
* We fixed a problem where dialogs, such as the Window-Eyes Mouse Find dialog, would cause Browse Mode to reload after closing. 
* We worked around a Mozilla change to Firefox that would cause Placemarkers to not work until the Placemarker dialog was opened and then closed. 
* Window-Eyes now provides better support for edit boxes in both Internet Explorer and Firefox outside of Browse mode. 

### Braille 
* In a listview, column titles and field data would not match up under some circumstances, such as hiding the first column header. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the Braille hotkey dialog would open slowly. Now, Braille hotkeys are loaded quickly, causing the dialog to open much faster. Saving Braille changes also happens much more rapidly. 
* We fixed a problem where multiple listview items were being highlighted. 
* We fixed a problem where long contiguous lines of text would not be displayed properly if Whole Word Mode was enabled. 
* In Excel, a quick message could get into a loop, and never display the cell's contents. This problem has been resolved. 
* Quick message mode would only show the most recent quick message. Now, if you get several quick messages before the last one expires, all of them will be shown. 
* If you arrowed too quickly through an Excel spreadsheet, the text of the final cell wouldn't show up on the Braille display. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Grade 2 whole word mode would skip text when moving right by block. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille would constantly adjust the left edge of the display when using a Braille movement key. This problem has been resolved. 
* Reclassed edit boxes could cause garbage characters to be shown on the Braille display. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where group boxes in Braille could have their first character truncated. 
* Braille can now display both group box names and field names at the same time. 
* We fixed a problem where routing mouse to focus would cause the mouse and caret to be on different cells. 
* We fixed a problem where the cursor would not update in Braille when Show Indents and Show Extra Spacing were enabled. 
* Pressing a routing key to toggle the checked status of a check box was not working. This problem has been resolved. 
* Combo boxes were not being displayed correctly (or speaking correctly, in some cases) in Internet Explorer 7 and Internet Explorer 8. This problem has been resolved. 
* With the control information option Include Name off, the braille display would be blank in the Thunderbird message list. This problem has been resolved. 
* If a reclassed listbox had a field name, we would highlight it in Braille. This problem has been resolved. 
* Launch Wordpad and set up a Braille hotkey for the "to statusbar" hotkey. Press this Braille hotkey, and the mouse pointer goes to the top left of the screen. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the Windows Calculator displayed an empty, read only, edit box. 
* We fixed a problem where selected text in browse mode was not highlighted in Braille. 
* Selected text in Notepad was not showing up as highlighted with dots 78 in Braille. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where reading with the mouse would cause "stuttering" with Braille. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille Whole Word Mode was not functioning correctly. 
* Using continuous search in Notepad (F3) in Structured Mode would result in a blank display. 

## 7.02
Released: 10/23/2008

No information was given on the release of [Window-Eyes 7.02](https://web.archive.org/web/20160703061648/http://www.gwmicro.com/window-eyes/version_history/index.php?details=7.02).

## 7.01
Released: 10/23/2008

* We have resolved several memory leaks, and fixed several stability issues thanks to the Window-Eyes error reporting feature. Window-Eyes 7.01 is a significant improvement over Window-Eyes 7.0 in terms of stability and responsiveness. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes could hang while leaving and entering Browse mode quickly. 
* We fixed a problem where list boxes were not reading correctly in Visual Studio 2005/2008. 
* We fixed a problem where Browse Mode would not refresh when a link was activated in Firefox 3. 
* Many upper Unicode characters (most above 7fh) were not getting translated correctly in English grade 2 braille. This problem has been resolved. 
* If the user profile path contained Unicode characters that didn't map into ANSI, you were not able to install script package files. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes would only read part of words with upper Unicode characters in PowerPoint 2003. This problem has been resolved. 
* Added the WEUpdate script to the factory default scripts. This script will automatically check for Window-Eyes updates and let you know if there is an update available. 

### iTunes 
We resolved several issues relating to iTunes, including support for using the Window-Eyes Find command while in the iTunes store, resolving the issue of not being able to activate links using the Insert-Tab dialog, resolving the double reading in listviews and treeviews, speaking expanded and collapsed when you open and close tree view nodes, speaking the pull down menus correctly under Windows Vista, and resolving a problem where set files could not be associated to the iTunes window (or any window whose title was null). In addition, Window-Eyes does not automatically enable Browse Mode when the iTunes Store option is selected, meaning you can successfully arrow through all of the main items without suddenly getting tossed into Browse Mode. 

### Scripting 
* If Window-Eyes is localized in a language that a script was not localized in, the hotkeys won't work because they're not localized to the Window-Eyes language. To resolve this issue, we have added a new property to the Key object called UntranslatedName. From now on, our policy is to hard code default hotkey names in your script, always in English, even if you are writing the script in another language, because Window-Eyes will always be able to interrupt English hotkey names. They can still be displayed to the user in the script language, but they should be stored in INI files, and in scripts as English. This way no matter what language Window-Eyes is localized in, or what languages the script you are trying to use is localized in, the hotkeys will always work. Once again, default hotkey names should not exist in the XML resource, because they should never be localized. Keyboard.Key will accept both Key.Name and Key.Unstranslated name. Refer to the documentation for more information. 
* Added Mouse.ButtonDownEx and Mouse.ClickEx methods. Both methods provide the ability to enhance their respective functions with key modifiers. In addition, ClickEx fixes a problem of interrupting speech after performing the mouse click. 
* If a null string was returned through various Speech event handlers, speech would get disabled. This was mainly a problem with Visual Basic which would return null for speech events that werent specifically hooked. This problem has been resolved. 
* The scripting error dialog would sometimes pass a blank string for the error description. Now, if Window-Eyes cannot retrieve the error description, a default message will be used rather than displaying a blank string. 
* You can now use language id strings in the XML resource, such as "en" or "en-us" instead of having to use a hexadecimal number. 
* It was possible for a script to not successfully restart, but you would still hear the restart message. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where scripts could error when invoking Keyboard.Registerhotkey on launch. 
* We fixed a problem where you couldn't Control or Shift-Click using the keyboard (meaning you couldn't tap the Control key and then press the Left Mouse button hotkey to perform a left click). 
* We fixed a version comparison problem when installing script package files. 
* Window-Eyes now ensures that any read only attributes on script files being installing, uninstall, or used when created packages are cleared. This resolved a problem of script files not getting installed, or removed correctly. 
* The Window-Eyes Scripting Manual has been updated. 

# 7.0
Released: 9/15/2008

Cost: $175

Welcome to Window-Eyes 7.0 
Congratulations! 

GW Micro is proud to offer Window-Eyes 7.0, potentially the most anticipated release in the history of Window-Eyes. In addition to new powerful features like Placemarkers, enhanced control search features, inclusion of a new synthesizer, and so much more, Window-Eyes 7.0 is the first version of Window-Eyes to provide scripting capabilities. Whether you're new to scripting, or if you're a seasoned programmer, you will be able to take advantage of all the scripting possibilities Window-Eyes has to offer. In the past, GW Micro has stated that Window-Eyes did not include a complex, proprietary scripting language, and with this release we continue to stand by that claim. Window-Eyes 7.0 scripting uses industry standard practices to provide a scripting interface that is common and consistent, using tools that already exist in the Windows operating system. Window-Eyes scripting gives you the power to interact, not only with Window-Eyes features and options, but with other applications, with operating system features, with windows, dialogs, controls and so much more. Keep reading to learn more about all of the new features in Window-Eyes. 

### Scripting 

Window-Eyes 7.0 is proud to offer what may be the most anticipated feature in Window-Eyes history: full scripting functionality. Using industry standard methods scripts give you the tools to make Window-Eyes do almost anything you can think of related to working with applications and the operating system itself. 

#### What is Scripting? 

Scripts, in their most basic form, are simple text files containing instructions for Window-Eyes to follow. Scripts can also be external programs that talk to Window-Eyes using a special (although industry standard) communication method. 

Much like set files, scripts can be used to modify settings in Window-Eyes, monitor portions of the screen for specific kinds of activity, define hotkeys, and so on. In fact, anything a set file can do, a script can do. Instead of replacing set file functionality, scripting extends the features that set files offer, and provides even more access to the inner workings of Window-Eyes. 

Window-Eyes scripting also provides the unprecedented ability to create custom dialogs using XML. In other words, visually impaired users have the power to create simple to advanced user interfaces using a text file format -- visual drawing tools need not apply. 

#### How it Works 

The Window-Eyes scripting engine is a COM Automation server. COM Automation, according to Microsoft, is "a technology that allows software packages to expose their unique features to scripting tools and other applications." That means all the guts of Window-Eyes are accessible through various objects, properties, methods, and events (these items make up the Window-Eyes Object Model). In addition, Window-Eyes embeds ActiveScript engines (including VBScript and JScript). This means that you can create scripts in VBScript, JScript (which is Microsoft's proprietary version of JavaScript), or any language that supports COM automation. 

Are you a Perl programmer, and want to use PerlScript? Be our guest. Do you prefer Python? Then why not create your scripts in ActivePython? Granted, the PerlScript, PythonScript, and similar parsing engines would need to be installed on machines where the scripts in those languages are going to be used. But if you're only creating scripts for yourself, and you happen to be an excellent Perl programmer, you have the power. Are you a C++ programmer? Are you a Visual Basic programmer? Do you use VBA, PHP, or .NET? Regardless of the language you choose, as long as it supports COM Automation, you can make Window-Eyes sing (literally, if you want). 

Another advantage to the Window-Eyes scripting model is support for future languages. If a language is released in the future that supports COM automation, it can be used to power Window-Eyes. 

Unlike other scripting engines' limited exposing of their interface to other applications and the use of proprietary languages, Window-Eyes scripting is an open server that not only hosts clients (i.e. scripts, executables, etc.), but also exposes itself through COM Automation to other applications. In other words, in addition to creating scripts that Window-Eyes can host, you can also access Window-Eyes objects from other programs. The possibilities are endless. 

#### Getting Started 

The Window-Eyes File menu contains a new pull down to help manage both scripts and set files. It is aptly named Manage Sets and Scripts (with a shortcut of M). The Manage Sets and Scripts menu contains several options, including: 

* U = Scripting Status - Controls whether the Window-Eyes scripting engine is On, Off, or set to Manual. When set to On, scripting is available. When set to Off, scripting is not available. When set to Manual, scripting is available, but scripts will not run automatically, but only when started manually. 
* A = Add or Remove Scripts and Sets - Displays a dialog used for Adding or Removing Window-Eyes Packages. Window-Eyes packages are created by the Package Manager discussed below. The Sets/Scripts Add Remove dialog is similar to the Windows Add Remove control panel in that you can manage the installation of scripts in one central location. 
* M = Script Manager - This dialog provides you with information about running scripts. It also lets you stop running scripts, control script security, manage advanced options, and access a script's help and options. 
* P = Package Manager - The package manager lets you package together multiple files, such as scripts, or sets, or scripts and sets, into a single package file that can be used with the Add or Remove Scripts and Sets feature discussed previously. 
* C = Encrypt Scripts - If you need to protect your scripts from prying eyes, you can use the Encrypt Script option to encrypt your script files using a custom Window-Eyes cipher scheme. 

The rest of the items in this pull down menu deal with set files, and are the same tools that existed in the File menu in previous versions of Window-Eyes. 

Note that the Window-Eyes Menu Level option under the Global menu will affect the availability of items in the Manage Sets and Scripts menu. When the menu level is set to beginner or intermediate, only Scripting Status, Add or Remove Scripts and Sets, Script Manager, and Set File Manager will be available. All menu options become available when the menu level is set to advanced. 

#### New Dialogs 

Let's examine each of the new dialogs that Window-Eyes scripting support provides for managing scripts. 

##### Add or Remove Sets and Scripts 

As mentioned previously, this dialog lets you control the installation of script packages that were created using the Window-Eyes Package Manager. Many script packages can be obtained from GW Micro's Script Central website (www.gwmicro.com/sc) -- more on that later. The Add/Remove dialog contains the following controls: 

Installed Scripts - List box - Displays all installed scripts, along with their version numbers (if supplied) and installation date. 

Add - Button - Prompts for the name of a Window-Eyes package file. Package files use the .wepm extension, which stands for Window-Eyes Package Management. Select a package name, and press enter to begin the package installation. 

Remove - Button - Removes the selected package and all associated files. 

Close - Button - Closes the dialog. 

Window-Eyes packages file types are registered with the operating system as belonging to the Add or Remove Sets and Scripts dialog. This means that you can select a package file in, say, Windows Explorer, press Enter on it, and the Add or Remove Sets and Scripts dialog will open, ready to install the selected package. This also means you can launch packages directly from web pages by selecting the Run option in your browser's download dialog instead of saving the file first (although that option still exists -- the choice really is up to you). In addition, if Window-Eyes is not running when a package is activated, Window-Eyes will start up, and launch the Add or Remove Scripts and Sets dialog ready to install the selected package. Once the installation is complete, Window-Eyes will remain running. 

##### Script Manager 

If you are a script user, you may find yourself in the Script Manager dialog to view running scripts, and to retrieve a script's help and options. If you are a script developer, you will often find yourself in the Script Manager, using the start and stop options to restart your scripts during development, loading and unloading scripts for testing, setting up your default script editor for quick editing access, and more. The Script Manager dialog contains the following controls: 

Scripts - List View - The scripts list view contains a list of all running scripts, based on the Display Scripts radio button selection, discussed next. 

Display Scripts 

* All (by Name) - Radio button - When this radio button is selected, all running scripts will be displayed sorted by filename. In addition to the filename, the Scripts list view also contains whether the script is designed to run globally or for an application (either "Global" or the associated application's name will be listed), the window title (if a script is associated to an application -- global scripts will leave this entry blank), the scripts status (i.e. running, stopped, etc.), and description (this is the description that the script itself provides using the ScriptDescription property of the ClientInformation object -- refer to the Window-Eyes Scripting Manual for more information on the ClientInformation object). 
* All (by Application) - Radio button - When this radio button is selected, all running scripts will be displayed sorted by the names of the applications the scripts are associated with, or global if they are not associated with a specific application. The Scripts list view contains the script's filename, whether the script is designed to run globally or for an application (either "Global" or the associated application's name will be listed), the window title (if a script is associated to an application -- global scripts will leave this entry blank), the scripts status (i.e. running, stopped, etc.), and description (this is the description that the script itself provides using the ScriptDescription property of the ClientInformation object -- refer to the Window-Eyes Scripting Manual for more information on the ClientInformation object). 
* Global - Radio button - When this radio button is selected, only those scripts that have been designated to run globally (i.e. running always, regardless of what application is active) will be listed. The list Scripts list view contains the script's filename, the scripts status (i.e. running, stopped, etc.), and description (this is the description that the script itself provides using the ScriptDescription property of the ClientInformation object -- refer to the Window-Eyes Scripting Manual for more information on the ClientInformation object). 
* Application - Radio button - This radio button will contain the name of the application that was active when the script manager was displayed. When this radio button is selected, only those scripts that have been designated to run when a specific application runs will be listed. The list Scripts list view contains the script's filename, the scripts status (i.e. running, stopped, etc.), and description (this is the description that the script itself provides using the ScriptDescription property of the ClientInformation object -- refer to the Window-Eyes Scripting Manual for more information on the ClientInformation object). 

Show More Options - Check box - By default, the Script Manager dialog only displays the Scripts list view, the Display Scripts radio button group, the Stop button, the Help and Options button, the Close button, and this check box (which also defaults to unchecked). If this check box is checked, several more buttons will be displayed, offering advanced options for loading/unloading, enabling/disabling, and starting/stopping scripts, along with Security options for defining what scripts should be trusted, and some other miscellaneous advanced options. The state of this check box is remembered after the dialog closes. 

Load - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - Selecting this button prompts for the filename of a script to load. If the Application radio button was selected prior to activating the Load button, the selected script will be associated with that application (in other words, it will only run when that application runs). If the Global radio button was selected prior to activating the Load button, the selected script will be associated globally (in other words, it will run always, regardless of what applications run). If either the All (by Name) or All (by Application) radio button is selected, the Load button will be disabled. You must choose whether to have the script you want to load run globally or for a specific application by selecting the appropriate radio button before loading the script. 

Unload - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - Unloads the selected script in the Script list view. Once a script has been unloaded, it will be removed from the Scripts list, and will no longer run automatically. This script is not, however, removed from the hard drive. It is instead simply ignored. The Add or Remove Sets and Scripts dialog should be used to uninstall and remove scripts from the hard drive. 

Start/Stop - Button - If the selected script in the Scripts list view has a status of something other than running, this button will have the label Start, and when activated will cause the selected script to run, and the status of the script will switch to running (assuming there are no errors). If the selected script has a status of something other than stopped, this button will have the label Stop, and when activated will cause the selected script to stop running. After a script is stopped, it will remain in the list of scripts with a status of stopped. If the script is global, and scripting is restarted, the stopped script will attempt to run again. If the script is application specific, and the application is closed and re-opened, the stopped script will attempt to run again. If the Window-Eyes scripting status is set to manual, stopped scripts will only run if they are started manually using this button. If the Window-Eyes scripting status is set to off, this button will be disabled. 

Help and Options - Button - If a script has provided help information through the ScriptHelp property of the ClientInformation object, this button will be enabled, and when activated will display information the script author provided. If this button is disabled, then the selected script did not provide any help information through the ScriptHelp property of the ClientInformation object -- refer to the Window-Eyes Scripting Manual for more information on the ClientInformation object. If the Window-Eyes scripting status is set to off, this button will be disabled. 

Close - Button - Activating this button closes the Script Manager dialog. 

Enable/Disable - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - If the selected script in the Scripts list view has a status of disabled, this button will have the label Enabled. If the Window-Eyes scripting status is set to on, and a disabled script is enabled, the script will run automatically. If the Window-Eyes Scripting Status is set to Manual, and a disabled script is enabled, it will not run automatically. If the selected script in the Scripts list view has a status of anything other than disabled, this button will have the label Disable, and when activated will disable the selected script from running until it has been enabled. If the Window-Eyes scripting status is set to off, this button will be disabled. 

Reload - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - When this button is activated, the selected script in the Scripts list view will be recycled. In other words, if the selected script is running, and this button is activated, the selected script will be stopped and then started again. If the script is already stopped, and this button is activated, the selected script will be started. If the Window-Eyes scripting status is set to off, this button will be disabled. 

Edit - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - When this button is activated, the selected script in the Scripts list view will be opened in the editor specified in the Advanced options dialog (discussed below). If no default editor is specified, the script will open in Notepad. 

Security - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - When this button is activated, the Script Security dialog (discussed below) will be displayed. 

Advanced - Button - Only available when Show More Options is checked - When this button is activated, the Advanced Script Settings dialog (discussed below) will be displayed. 

##### Script Security 

Window-Eyes Scripting takes security very seriously, and implements several security features that will provide the most novice user to the most advanced corporate system administrator the with the tools to ensure a safe computing environment. 

The Script Security dialog allows you to define how Window-Eyes should trust scripts, and if it should trust scripts, what kinds of scripts should be trusted. The Script Security dialog contains the following controls: 

Security Level 

* Allow All Scripts - Radio button - When this radio button is selected (and it is by default) all scripts will be trusted. 
* Allow Only Trusted Scripts - Radio button - When this radio button is selected, Window-Eyes will only allow trusted scripts to run. Trust level is based on the check boxes discussed below. 

Script Status - List view - This list view contains a list of all installed scripts, their publisher (if they've been digitally signed), and their trusted status. The Script Status list view, as well as the other controls in this dialog aside from the initial radio buttons, will only be enabled if the Allow Only Trusted Scripts radio button is selected. 

Publisher Trusted - Check box - If the selected script in the Script Status list view has been digitally signed, this check box will be enabled. If this check box is checked, Window-Eyes will trust all scripts containing the same digital signature. The trusted status in the Script Status list view will update to reflect the trusted status for all scripts containing the trusted digital signature (by changing the status to Publisher Trusted). If this check box is unchecked, the selected script's trust level will not be based on the script's digital signature. 

Script Trusted - Check box - If this check box is checked, Window-Eyes will trust the script itself, and the trusted status in the Script Status list view will update to Script Trusted. If this check box is not checked, the selected script's trust level will not be based on the script itself. 

Note that if both the Publish Trusted and Script Trusted check boxes are checked, the Script Status list view will show Both Trusted as the script's status, meaning that the script itself has been trusted, as has the publisher who signed the script with a digital signature. 

View Certificate - Button - If a selected script has been digitally signed, this button will be enabled, and when activated will display the script's digital signature certificate. 

Ok - Button - Closes the Script Security dialog, saving any changes. 

Cancel - Button - Closes the Script Security dialog, canceling any changes. 

If Window-Eyes is set to run only trusted scripts, and a trusted script is modified (either by the digital signature changing, or if there is no digital signature, by the script itself changing), Window-Eyes will no longer trust the script, and the script will no longer run. The script would need to be trusted again in its new form in order for Window-Eyes to run it successfully. 

In addition to script security, Window-Eyes Scripting also honors any operating system software restriction policies enabled by system administrators. 

##### Advanced Script Settings 

The Advanced Script Settings dialog provides you with some miscellaneous utilities that make advanced scripting a bit easier. The dialog contains the following controls: 

Script Editor - Read only edit box - This edit box displays the full path to the selected script editor. 

Specify Editor - Button - When activated this button prompts for the full path to the application to be designated as the default script editor. The default script editor is Notepad. 

Fast Reload Script - Read only edit box - This edit box displays the name and path of the script that will be reloaded automatically when the Reload Script hotkey (undefined, by default) is pressed. This provides a quick way to reload a script without going into the Script Manager. It is ideal for working in applications where reloading is necessary to test new script features during script development. 

Assign Script - Button - When activated assigns the selected script in the Script Manager dialog to be the fast reload script. 

Remove Script - Button - When activated removes the current fast reload script. 

Close - Button - Closes the Advanced Script Settings dialog. 

##### Package Manager 

The Package Manager provides an easy way for script developers to package all of their files together in a single file archive for easy distribution. Unlike other utilities that provide multiple file compression (ZIP, for example), Window-Eyes packages are designed for use with the Window-Eyes Add or Remove Scripts and Sets dialog, which helps users manage the scripts they have installed. Selecting the Package Manager option from the Manage Sets and Scripts menu will result in a dialog with three buttons: Create New Package, Modify Existing Package, and Cancel. Create New Package will start the package creation from scratch. Modify Existing Package let's you select an existing package to modify. Cancel simply closes the dialog. Regardless of whether you choose to create a new package, or modify an existing package, the Package Manager dialog includes the following controls: 

Files to Package - List box - This list contains all of the files that have been added for packaging. 

Associate Globally - Button - When activated this button designates the selected script or scripts in the Files to Package list box to run as global scripts. 

Associate with Application - Button - When activated this button designates the selected script or scripts in the Files to Package list box to run with a specific application. When this button is activated, you will be prompted to select a .WE file to associate the scripts to. .WE files are also used to associate set files to an application. You can select an existing .WE file, or type in the name of a .WE file. The .WE file does not have to exist when creating the package. During installation of the package, if the .WE file does not exist on the end user's machine, it will be created automatically; otherwise it will be appended to. This method allows you to provide scripts for an application that may already have set files associated to it. Alternatively, you could choose to include set files with your script files in the package so that everything is available in one place. 

Remove Association - Button - When activated this button removes any association for the selected script or scripts in the Files to Package list box. 

Associate With - List box - This list contains all of the associations for the selected script or scripts in the Files to Package list box. If a script has a global association, the word Global will be present. Otherwise, the name of the associated .WE file (or files) will be listed. 

Version - Edit box - This edit box allows the script developer to provide a version number for the script package. This version number will be displayed in the Add or Remove Scripts and Sets dialog after a package has been installed. 

Require shutdown of all scripts before installation - Check box - If this check box is checked, the user will be prompted that all scripts need to be shut down before installation of the package can continue. This is useful when installing scripts that contain shared information other scripts may rely on. 

Package Details - Edit box - This edit box allows the script developer to provide important installation details or other notes that need to be displayed before a script package is installed. 

License Information - Edit box - This edit box allows the script developer to provide a license that must be confirmed by the user before the script installation will take place. If this edit box is left empty, the end user will not be prompted to confirm a license agreement before installation. 

Add Files - Button - When activated prompts for the file or files to be added to the final package. 

Remove Files - Button - When activated removes the selected file or files from the Files to Package list box. 

Create Package - Button - When activated prompts for a filename to call the final package. The default extension is .wepm. After entering a filename, and pressing Enter (or selecting the Save button), the package will be created. 

Close - Button - When activated closes the Package Manager dialog. 

#### Encrypt Scripts 

Although GW Micro uses and supports the open source script model, there may be times when a script author needs to protect source code. Window-Eyes Scripting offers that ability using the Encrypt Scripts feature. When this option is selected from the Window-Eyes Manage Sets and Scripts menu item, an open dialog will appear prompting for the name of the script or scripts to be encrypted. Upon confirming the dialog, and the encryption confirmation message, the encrypted versions of the scripts will reside in the same directory as the unencrypted versions, and will contain the extension .wecrypt. For example, encrypting a script called myscript.vbs would result in an encrypted version called myscript.vbs.wecrypt. 

#### Your First Script 

To begin creating scripts, you will need knowledge of the language you're writing your scripts in, as well as information about the Window-Eyes scripting interface (also known as the Window-Eyes object model). GW Micro scripts have been standardized in VBScript, as it is the easiest scripting language syntax to understand for both new and advanced users. The language you choose, however, is ultimately up to you. As mentioned previously, any language that supports COM automation, and all ActiveScript languages are supported. 

The documentation for the Window-Eyes object model can be found in the Window-Eyes Help menu. The Window-Eyes object model documentation exists in HTML Help format, and can be navigated just like the Window-Eyes manual (i.e. navigating to the section in the table of contents you want to read, pressing Enter to open the section, pressing F6 to load the section into the Browse Mode buffer, and, when done reading, pressing F6 again to navigate back to the table of contents). 

In addition to documentation and language knowledge, you'll also want to pick an editor for writing scripts. Because Window-Eyes hosted scripts are nothing more than text files, you can choose whichever text editor you're most comfortable with. Even something as simple as Notepad will be sufficient for creating scripts. 

After reviewing the Window-Eyes Scripting Manual for syntax information, and object details, you find that Window-Eyes contains an Application object with a property called SerialNumber, which returns a string containing the serial number associated with a running copy of Window-Eyes. You also find that the Speech object contains a method called Speak, which takes a string as a parameter. Using that knowledge, you create a single line text file called speakserial.vbs, which contains: 

	Speak "My serial number is " & SerialNumber 

Now that you have a sample script, you must decide how Window-Eyes should run the script. Should it run every time Window-Eyes loads, or should it run only when an application loads? To associate your script globally (so that it will run every time Window-Eyes launches), open the Script Manager dialog, select the Global radio button, then select the Load button. Provide the path and name of your script, and press enter. Your script will run immediately (because it's global, and Window-Eyes is running), and your serial number will be spoken. To associate your script to an application (Notepad, for example), so that it will run every time that application runs, open the Script Manager dialog, select the application radio button, then select the Load button. Provide the path and name of your script, and press enter. Your script will run immediately, because the application you associated it with is already running. If you close the application, and then open it again, your script will also run again. 

From this point on, what you decide to do with scripting is up to you. The possibilities are endless. Whether you plan on creating scripts yourself, or whether you only plan on using the scripts others create, we encourage you to join our latest email list: GW-Scripting. GW-Scripting is a discussion list designed to promote ideas and conversation about Window-Eyes scripting. The list can be used as a place to ask questions about scripts, to announce the availability of new scripts, or to request scripts. Although the GW-Info list still applies to all GW Micro related products and services, scripting related inquiries should be directed to the GW-Scripting list for more accurate responses, and to keep GW-Info related traffic to a reasonable amount. 

In addition to the GW-Scripting email list, GW Micro is proud to offer Script Central (www.gwmicro.com/sc), a primary repository for Window-Eyes scripts. Script Central is free for everyone. Once you have registered with Script Central, you can log in to upload and manage your own scripts for public distribution, rate existing scripts for their usefulness, provide comments for script developers and users, keep track of your favorite scripts, receive notifications when scripts are updated, and much more. 

Script Central also ties into the GW Micro Forum area, which in addition to hosting individual script discussion areas for every script posted to Script Central, also includes general script discussion forums where you can post topics regarding general scripting, script requests, script announcements, the Window-Eyes object model, VBScript, or another popular scripting language, JScript. If your favorite scripting language doesn't have a discussion forum, and you feel others could benefit from a language specific script discussion area, please let us know. 

Window-Eyes continues to pride itself in the areas of stability, performance, and reliability. Now that scripting is available, however, it is possible to get your machine into a less than optimal state (think infinite loops and such). Window-Eyes provides several command line options that can be used in a pinch to get Window-Eyes unloaded and reloaded. They are as follows: 

* Wineyes.exe /k - Removes Window-Eyes from memory. It is important to note that Window-Eyes can only shut itself down successfully if it is running successfully. It is possible that performing a /k at the command line will not execute if Window-Eyes is running in an unreliable state. In that case, you may want to use third party utilities like pskill to stop the Window-Eyes processes. 
* Wineyes.exe /scripts:off - Runs Window-Eyes with scripting disabled. This is the same as going into the Scripting Status dialog, and setting the scripting option to Off. 
* Wineyes.exe /scripts:manual - Runs Window-Eyes with scripting set to manual. This is the same as going into the Scripting Status dialog, and setting the scripting option to Manual. 

There is no scripts:on option, as just running Window-Eyes normally will default to scripting being enabled (assuming it was not already set to Off or Manual through the Scripting Status dialog). 

#### Scripting Errors 

As you develop scripts, you'll count on reliable error reporting to tell you what's working and what isn't in your scripts. Window-Eyes displays script errors in a custom script error dialog which contains the line and column number corresponding to the error, a short description of the error, and four buttons: Ignore Error (which attempts to continue running the script, despite the error), Stop Script (which stops the script from running), Edit Script (which opens the script in the default editor), and View Help (which, if enabled, will open the Window-Eyes scripting documentation to the section dealing with the object that the error occurred in). You can also press Control-C while the error dialog is being displayed to copy the contents of the error to the clipboard. 

Happy scripting! 

### Placemarkers 

Window-Eyes now offers the ability to set placemarkers on web pages. Window-Eyes Placemarkers easily outperform placemarker features found in other screen readers by offering the ability to search for specific text rather than just hard coding a placemarker to a line number. In today's dynamic web environment, Window-Eyes Placemarkers give you quick and easy access to common web page areas. 

To set a place marker, navigate to the line in the Browse Mode buffer that you want to add the placemarker to and press the Place Marker Dialog hotkey (Control-Shift-K by default). The placemarker dialog allows you to set a new placemarker, edit existing placemarkers, or even jump to an existing placemarker. The description of the dialog is as follows: 

Name - Edit box - This is the name of the placemarker. This will default to the name of the item you're on in the Browse Mode buffer. For example, if you're on a link called "Window-Eyes" when you bring up the placemarker dialog, the placemarker name will default to "Window-Eyes." You can change the placemarker name to be anything you want. 

Hotkey Number - Combo box - This will automatically assign a hot key to the placemarker for quick jumping. 

Temporary - Check box - If the temporary checkbox is checked, the placemarker you're adding will be stored in memory until you exit Window-Eyes. If the temporary check box is unchecked, the placemarker you're adding will be stored to disc, and will be available even after Window-Eyes restarts. 

Auto Read Lines - Edit box - The Auto Read Lines edit box allows you to specify how many lines of text will be automatically read when you navigate to a placemarker. Each placemarker may have a different number of lines associated with it. The default number of lines is 5. 

Apply to: 

* Webpage - Radio button - If the apply to webpage radio button is selected, the placemarker you're adding will only work on the current web page. For example, a placemarker saved for the web page www.gwmicro.com/support will only work on that web page. 
* Domain - Radio button - If the apply to domain radio button is selected, the placemarker you're adding will work on any web page containing the same domain name. For example, a placemarker saved for the domain gwmicro.com will work on any page on the gwmicro.com website. 

Placemarker Text - Edit box - By default, placemarkers will be associated to the line that you're on in Browse Mode when you bring up the placemarker dialog. Because web pages are so dynamic, it's very possible that the next time you visit the page, the line that you wanted the placemarker to associate to will have changed. The placemarker text edit box allows you to define the text that Window-Eyes will search for if the lines don't match when trying to locate a placemarker. This is used with the second and third radio buttons below. 

Position Relative To: 

* Line Number Only - Radio button - When selected, Window-Eyes will only match line numbers. If the line moves (because the page changes), the line numbers won't match, and the placemarker won't be found. 
* Line Number and Text - Radio button - When selected, Window-Eyes will only match line numbers with specific text (see the placemarker text edit box above). This is useful if you have text on a page that's constant followed by text that changes. For example, say there's a news page that always begins their main headline with "updated on" followed by the current date. Using the placemarker text, you can say look on a specific line for the text "updated on", leaving off the date. 
* Line Number and Text Search - Radio Button - When selected, Window-Eyes will scan the entire page, looking for the text supplied in the placemarker text edit box. 

Add Entry - Button - Adds a placemarker. Pressing Enter will also add an entry if you're modifying an entry's properties. 

Remove Entry - Button - Removes the selected entry in the Names list box. 

Remove All - Button - Removes all the entries in the Names list box. 

Jump To - Button - Jumps to the selected entry in the Names list box. 

Names - List box - Lists the names of placemarkers based on the following radio buttons. 

Display Names By: 

* Domain - Radio button - When selected, displays all placemarkers available for the current domain in the Names list box mentioned previously. 
* URL & Domain - Radio button - When selected, displays all placemarkers available for the current web page in the Names list box mentioned previously. 

Information - Read only edit box - Displays miscellaneous information regarding the selected placemarker. 

Ok - Button - Confirms placemarker changes, and closes the dialog. If you are in the process of adding them, OK will add the last entry. If you are in the process of editing an existing, it will save those and all prior changes. 

Cancel - Button - Cancel's whatever you're doing, and closes the dialog. If you added or edited any placemarkers, those changes will be lost. 

Once you have defined placemarkers you can press the Next Placemarker hotkey (K by default) to jump to the next placemarker on the page. Press the Prior Placemarker hotkey (Shift-K by default) to go to the prior placemarker. If you assigned a hotkey number to a placemarker, you can type that number (1 through 9) followed by a press of the Jump to Placemarker hotkey (J by default) to have the text at the placemarker read. Pressing the Jump to Placemarker hotkey again will move the Browse Mode cursor to the placemarker line. For example, if you have a placemarker assigned to hotkey 3, you can press 3J to read the text at the placemarker, and press J again to move to the placemarker. 

Placemarkers have also been added to the page navigation dialog (Insert-Tab by default). 

### Enhanced Control Search 

Window-Eyes now offers Browse Mode Enhanced Control Search capabilities. When pressing either the Specified Control Next (N by default) and Specified Control Prior (Shift-N by default) key in Browse Mode, Window-Eyes announces, "In control search mode," and will wait for the next key press, and act on it accordingly. The subsequent key press after pressing the Next/Prior Control key acts as a modifier, adding additional information to the final command. 

* C: modifier indicating checked version of the actual control to be specified with the next key press (relevant for checkboxes and radio buttons only) 
* U: modifier indicating unchecked version of the actual control to be specified with the next key press (relevant for checkboxes and radio buttons only) 
* D: modifier indicating disabled version of the actual control to be specified with the next key press 
* ENTER: if a previous version of the next/prior control hotkey was given since the launch of Window-Eyes this will repeat the exact same command. If there was no previous command given since the launch of WE then this will simply navigate to the next/prior control as the hotkey originally functioned. 

After pressing the Next/Prior Control hotkey, and an optional modifier, the following keys represent the kind of control to navigate to: 

* B - Button 
* E - Editbox 
* O - Combobox 
* X - Checkbox 
* R - Radio Button 
* L - Listbox 
* A - Next any control 

For example, pressing N,X will find the next checkbox. Pressing N,U,X will find the next unchecked checkbox. Pressing N,C,X will find the next checked checkbox. And so on. You can also use the number keys (1-9) prior to pressing the Specified Control Next/Prior hot keys to jump from the current location the number specified for the particular control. 

The Page Navigation dialog (Insert-Tab by default) now includes a "Controls" radio button. When you select this radio button, all of the controls on the page will be displayed. You type the first letter of a control to move between the control names, or type out the name to select a single control. Once you have selected a control, you can choose to either activate the control or focus it. 

### Additional Features 
* Window-Eyes is now fully Unicode compliant, and offers more localization capabilities for many other languages. While this change is largely internal, there are some UI options affected: 
	* In the Screen and Keyboard punctuation menus, the control and enhanced options have been removed, as they don't make sense with Unicode. If the punctuation isn't textual, math, or space then it is miscellaneous. 
	* Ansi/attribute hot keys for Cursor and Mouse have been renamed to Unicode/Attribute. 
	* In the Character dictionary dialog, you could specify ANSI characters by typing a slash and the ANSI value. Now, to specify a Unicode character, type a slash followed by x and then the number in hexadecimal (Unicode values are typically expressed as hexadecimal numbers). 
	* You can now define Braille hotkeys to send any Unicode character from the keyboard. Prior to Unicode support, upper ANSI chars did not work, making non-English languages that needed these characters difficult to work with. 
* Window-Eyes now supports Firefox 3. There are a few outstanding issues that require work on Mozilla's part. These are slated for the next major public update to Firefox 3. 
* iTunes 8 is now supported. GW Micro has worked with Apple to be the first screen reader to support iTunes. 
* Browse Mode provides two new hotkeys: Next/Prior Graphic. When these keys are pressed, the Browse Mode cursor will be moved to either the next or prior graphic in the Browse Mode buffer, based on the "Include Graphics with no description" verbosity option. 
* The Voice Rotor Parameter hotkeys now speak indexes. If all three voices are set the same, the announcement will say, "All voices rate XYZ." If the voices are not set the same, the announcement will say, "Screen rate XYZ, Keyboard rate XYZ, Mouse rate XYZ." The same goes for pitch, tone, and volume. 
* You can now press any key to stop a Read to End, not just the Escape key. Along with Left and Right arrow to rewind and fast forward through text, you can now press U and D to increase and decrease the synthesizer speech rate on the fly. 
* The Window-Eyes Error Reporting feature has been enhanced. The Error Report dialog has been changed to include Send Now, Send Later, and Delete Error buttons instead of OK and Cancel. Send Now means send the error report immediately. Send Later means that the error will not be sent when the dialog closes, and will also not be deleted so that it can be sent at a later time. Delete Error simply removes the error report file, and does not send anything. If you press escape to close the error report dialog, the report will not be deleted, much like if you had selected the Send Later button. If you try to send an error report without including any comments, a message box will display, asking you to confirm that you want to send the error without adding any additional information regarding your error. In addition to the dialog changes, submitting error reports should happen significantly faster. 
* The Window-Eyes Help, About dialog has been updated to sport a new Window-Eyes logo, as well as two new buttons: Find a Dealer (which launches the default browser to www.gwmicro.com/dealers), and Visit Website (which launches the default browser to www.gwmicro.com). 
* We have sped up the navigation of list views. 
* The Window-Eyes UI now uses true track bar controls for items like Screen, Keyboard, and Mouse rate, pitch, tone, and volume options. In addition, values now increase when you press the Up Arrow, and decrease when you press the Down Arrow. Finally, instead of using Min and Max as the threshold names, actual values are used. 
* Window-Eyes now supports reversed track bars, so that instead of values like 0 of 500 being the loudest in the volume control, 500 of 500 now indicates the maximum volume. 
* Window-Eyes now indicates when the keyboard language has changed by speaking the name of the input language. 
* Mouse Up/Down Speak now has two additional options: beginning of line to pointer, and pointer to end of line. 
* System tray access has been sped up exponentially. Now, instead of accessing the icons on the screen, Window-Eyes uses MSAA to retrieve system tray information, and does so almost instantaneously. 
* Window-Eyes now takes local user regional settings into account when using the Time/Date hotkey. 
* The progress bar hotkey now supports marquee progress bars. Marquee progress bars bounce back and forth rather then increase or decrease in value. 
* The Keyboard Voice option now includes two new parameters: On with Words (Interrupt) and On with Words and Numbers (Interrupt). Both of these options function just like the existing Words and Words and Numbers options, except key presses will interrupt speech instead of queuing until space bar is pressed. 
* The Set Active Profile dialog (accessed with the Set Active Profile menu option in the File menu of Window-Eyes) now offers an Open Profile Path button, which will open Windows Explorer in the current user profile directory. This is an easy way to access sets and scripts without having to remember to type %appdata%GW MicroWindow-EyesUsersDefault in the Run dialog. 
* The Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog now pays attention to the Outlook first day of the week setting. In other words, if the first day of the week is set to Monday, the Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog will respect that, and start both the work week and normal week on Monday. 
* The Focused verbosity options Window Type and Window Type First have been changed from two check boxes to three radio buttons: Don't Include Window Type, Include Window Type Before Window Data, and Include Window Type After Window Data. 
* Window-Eyes is now much more accurate when retrieving window names. This means set file associations will be much more reliable from now on. Existing set files may need to be updated to support this new change. 
* Window-Eyes now includes ECI Eloquence 6.1 (this is the dedicated version, not the SAPI version), and contains all available languages. It is listed as Eloquence in the Synthesizer Selection dialog. This version of Eloquence is tied to Window-Eyes, much like the DECtalk Access 32 (Window-Eyes) synthesizer (and can be run from a mobile copy of Window-Eyes, also like the DECtalk Access 32 (Window-Eyes) synthesizer). Note that switching to the dedicated Eloquence synthesizer from the SAPI version of Eloquence will most likely result in speech problems. We strongly recommend switching to another synthesizer temporarily (like the DECtalk Access 32 (Window-Eyes) and then switching to Eloquence. In fact, unless you're using the SAPI version of Eloquence 5 with some other application, we recommend removing it altogether to avoid potential conflicts. 
* We have modified the way keyboard layout settings are saved. Now, when you select a different keyboard layout, you will hear a message spoken (or displayed in Braille) every 10 seconds indicating the keyboard layout is being modified (as this can take a few minutes to update all set files). When the update has completed, you will receive a confirmation that the update is complete. 

### Set File Updates 
* The Office 2003 and Firefox set files have been updated, so if you use those applications, you should re-install those set files. In addition, due to the fantastic Winamp scripts that are now available from Jeff Bishop, the factory default Winamp set files have been removed. 

### Enhancements between Window-Eyes 7.0 and Window-Eyes 6.1 
* When changing keyboard languages, we now speak that the layout has changed. In addition, if you change the keyboard layout within that language, Window-Eyes will indicate both the layout name and the language name. Currently we only support the Polish 214 and Polish (Programmers) layouts within the Polish language. All others will just hear "layout changed." We can update an external .ini file if you have layouts you wish us to speak the name of instead of just "layout changed." 
* The key describer has been updated for Numbers Toggle and Keyboard Voice Rotor. 
* We resolved a problem where reading with the mouse would be broken after a read to end was performed. 
* When reading the Unicode attribute, speech is slowed down for the Unicode value on subsequent key presses. Now the speech is slowed for both the mouse and cursor hotkeys when reading Unicode values. 
* We fixed a problem where too many onClicks were being reported when using Firefox 3. 
* Pressing the Verbosity hotkey to open the Verbosity options to a specific element on a web page was inconsistent. This problem has been resolved. 
* Control backslash should now always bring up something. It should either bring up the control panel, the active Window-Eyes child window, or the window that parented itself to the control panel or a Window-Eyes child window. 
* Serial synthesizers now support COM1 to COM99. 
* We have resolved all known Read to End issues. 
* We have resolved all known Load Before Startup issues. 
* The Office 2007 set files have been updated. 
* Resolved several memory leaks. 
* We have been able to resolve many issues thanks to the Window-Eyes error reporting feature. Thanks to all who have taken the time to submit your errors which allows Window-Eyes to remain the most stable screen reader available. 
* We fixed a problem where message lists were not being announced in Lotus Notes. 
* Some fonts can simulate bold or italic without being truly bold or italic. Window-Eyes now recognizes this information, and reports the attribute correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where the mouse voice would use the global settings when global was set to verbosity only not voice only. 
* Window-Eyes 7.0 updates the Window-Eyes items in the Start menu. There is a Documentation folder that holds the Readme, Window-Eyes manual, Window-Eyes scripting manual, and the Window-Eyes text manual. The text manual option just brings up an Explorer window in the directory which holds the manual .txt files. 
* The Window-Eyes manual has now been officially renamed from wineyes.chm to Window-Eyes Manual.chm. The install will delete the old wineyes.chm and all references within Window-Eyes now reference the new filename. 
* We fixed a problem where speech with the TripleTalk USB was sluggish when using a Brailliant Braille display. 
* We resolved a BSOD that could occur when installing Window-Eyes video support under a VMWare virtual machine. 
* We fixed a problem where the check box status of items in Vista's "Turn Windows Features On or Off" dialog were not being reported. 
* If you defined a Window-Eyes hot key using the Alt key, and pressed that hot key in Internet Explorer, the menu bar would get activation. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the Skype option treeview was not reading correctly. 
* We added support for more Delphi controls. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would get stuck in a loop, saying, "Window-Eyes has installed video support. You must reboot the system for the change to take effect." 
* We fixed a problem where the cursor was not being detected in a command prompt. 
* We fixed a problem where speech would cease after opening a new memo in Lotus Notes. 
* We fixed a problem where hotkeys using the Windows key were not functioning correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where file modification dates were not being read when a list view was set to details view under Vista. 
* Window-Eyes was putting a space before apostrophes, causing potentially strange speech. Although some synthesizers also exhibit this behavior on their own, it has been resolved in Window-Eyes. 
* We fixed a problem where punctuation was not being reported after digits. 
* We fixed a problem where the default button was disabled in the Window-Eyes User Profiles Dialog. 
* We fixed a problem where set files were not updating correctly after installing or uninstalling a set file package. 
* We now default the SILENT.000 (renamed to k1000.000) set file to all of the Kurzweil 1000 self voicing applications. If K100 was set to voice on its own but Window-Eyes braille was being used we fixed the problem where braille was not tracking correctly. You must update to the latest factory Kurzweil sets for braille to be fixed. 
* The Window-Eyes control panel was not disabled on secure desktops, like the Windows login screen. In addition, in a Citrix environment, the Window-Eyes control panel was disabled when it should not have been. These problems have been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where replacing existing character dictionary entries was not working correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where user names were not spoken in the Windows login selection combo box. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes could become catatonic after resuming from hibernation. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would hang when working with empty dictionary files. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes was reading previous control information when tabbing to a new control in the TeamTalk application. 
* If you used Control-Tab to move through tabs controls, and the tab control had focus, nothing would be spoken. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the shortcut was not being read for the combo box field names in the Notepad Save As dialog. 
* We fixed a problem where unselecting items in a list view would not always result in Window-Eyes speaking, "unselected." 
* We fixed a problem where check boxes in Skype were always reporting unchecked. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would sometimes go silent when typing in the password edit box as the login screen. 
* We fixed a problem where edit boxes and rich edit boxes would ignore the Window Type First verbosity setting. 
* We fixed a problem where the display settings track bar in Vista was double speaking. 
* We fixed a problem where the Apply button in the Select Synthesizer dialog often did nothing more than saving the change to the disk. Now Apply saves the settings and makes the synthesizer refresh to enact the changes (just like OK, except that the dialog stays up). 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would stop working when Spyware Doctor was running under Windows Vista. 
* If the Keyboard voice was set to Words or Word with Numbers, and the Special Key Escape was turned off, escape would still be spoken. This has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where disabling the Vista User Account Control feature would keep Window-Eyes from launching. 
* We fixed a problem where numbers separated by colons were not following the number processing correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where focusing the clock in the system tray in Vista would result in Window-Eyes speaking, "clock" multiple times. 
* We fixed an obscure problem that involved an HP F4100 scanner/printer combo, and Kurzweil 1000, wherein Window-Eyes was causing the scanning dialog not to be displayed 
* We fixed a problem where accessing the Contacts list in Vista would result in a lockup when the Contacts template was being used. 
* We fixed a problem where check boxes in the network properties dialog under Vista were double speaking. 
* We fixed a problem where IP edit boxes in Vista (used for entering dot separated IP network addresses) were not reading correctly. 
* We fixed a problem in the Key Label dictionary where entries were not added or removed correctly, often resulting in a lock up. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes was losing track of the active window when the Alt-Tab dialog gained activation. 
* We fixed a problem where the GWSpeak API DLL was not working under Vista. 
* Window-Eyes now supports keyboard languages which require several key strokes to compose a single key, as in Asian languages. 

### Internet/Browse Mode/Email 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would not navigate correctly to some same page links. 
* We fixed a problem where the Browse Mode status messages could get confused when working with multiple browse windows. 
* We fixed a problem where the Browse Mode cursor would not return to the correct position when going back to a previous page. 
* We fixed a problem where Browse Mode would not turn on in eClipseReader, and other applications with similar embedded IE windows. 
* We fixed a problem where typing in edit boxes would result in a "ding" sound for each keypress, even though the text was being typed. 
* Opening some PDF files that contain a large number of links could take a very long time to load in full document mode. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where having the Google Desktop installed under Windows Vista would cause Internet Explorer not to launch. 
* We fixed a problem where text in Browse Mode could get corrupted if the Screen Miscellaneous Punctuation was enabled. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes could hang when moving between form controls. 
* We fixed a problem where random text could get inserted into the Browse Mode buffer. 
* We fixed a problem where Browse Mode would not load correctly if Window-Eyes was set to launch automatically at the login screen. 
* We fixed a problem where activating a link from the Insert-Tab dialog would not work correctly. 
* We fixed a problem where Browse Mode would turn on (partially) in the Windows XP System Restore utility. 
* Read only controls were not being reported in neither Internet Explorer nor Firefox. That problem has been resolved. 
* When switching search engines in Firefox 3, the selected search engine was not spoken. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where combo boxes were not spoken outside of Browse Mode in Firefox 3. 
* We fixed a problem of the save password prompt not being spoken in Firefox 3. 
* Going in and out of bookmark menus in Firefox 3 could cause the menu to stop reading. This problem has been resolved. 
* The Domain/URL edit box in the Placemarker dialog was always blank in Firefox. This problem has been resolved. 
* Window-Eyes now provides support for Internet Explorer 8 Beta 2. 
* We fixed a problem where the "invalid" property of a control was only being spoken in Browse Mode. 
* Creating new messages in Thunderbird would cause Browse Mode to come on. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where going into the menus in Thunderbird, and then going back to a message window would cause reading problems. 
* We fixed a problem where radio buttons in the Thunderbird Account Wizard were not speaking. 
* We fixed a problem where consecutive find commands in Outlook Express were not reading. 
* If you deleted all the messages in the Outlook Express inbox, and then pressed the Up or Down Arrow keys, you would continue to hear information regarding the last message that was deleted. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where arrowing through messages in Windows Mail was sluggish. 
* We fixed a problem where you couldn't tab between certain buttons in Windows Mail. 
* We fixed a problem where links were not being identified correctly in HTML messages in Outlook Express. 
* We fixed a problem where closing a browse window after launching a link in Outlook Express would result in the inability to navigate the email message until the screen was redrawn. 

### Braille 
* Braille is now fully Unicode, including translation tables. If a character is not represented in the Unicode table, it will be converted to a ? (question mark) and then looked up in the table. 
* If the Braille Unicode range (2800h through 28ffh) is used, those dot patterns are displayed. 
* If you selected grade 2, we now force you to the 6 dot table. Previously you could select grade 2 and the 8 dot tables. Not only do we force the 6 dot tables for grade 2, we also uncheck and disable the 8 dot checkbox in the Braille options dialog if grade 2 is checked. 
* We fixed a problem where graphics were not showing up in Braille. 
* We fixed a problem where cursoring position would be incorrect with the "show extra spacing" Braille option enabled. 
* Braille tables have been updated for smart single and double quotes to match standard single and double quotes. 
* The Eurobraille driver has been updated. 
* All Handy Tech braille displays have been updated to match the correct key names as well as updated the default braille hotkey actions to better suite each display. In addition, Handy Tech updated most of their Braille default keys and key names. So the braille.ini files has been updated which means you'll be asked if you want the enhanced Braille support when installing Window-Eyes 7.0. 
* We have updated the Duxbury grade 2 translator to support Unicode and now use the latest US English and British English tables. 
* Unified English Braille (UEB) is now supported for the English Grade 2 translation table. There is a checkbox in the Translation table dialog that controls this setting. If enabled, the UEB tables will be used. In addition, the French 8 dot Braille translation table has been converted to the French Unified Braille translation table. 
* The Braille translation dialog has been re-designed. You are no longer limited to two user defined tables. You can have an unlimited number. The dialog now allows you to create and delete user tables. To edit or view a table there is a new button to launch the table in Notepad. The user tables now live in the active profile dir instead of the program dir. The factory tables still remain in the program dir. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille scrolling options were not being honored. 
* We have added support for the Eurobraille displays, the KGS BrailleMemo, and have updated support for the Pappenmeier Braillex Trio/El displays, and Alva displays. 
* Window-Eyes now supports the Lillie Braille display from Italy, and the Alva BC640. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille was not working in the Office 2007 options dialog. 
* We fixed a problem where the Outlook profile name combo box was not displaying in Braille. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille was not updating while tabbing through links. 
* We fixed a problem where some Braille settings were not being saved. In addition we have modified the way Braille settings are saved when you select the "Apply Braille settings to all programs" option in the Braille menu. Now, when you apply settings, you will hear a message spoken (or displayed in Braille) every 10 seconds indicating the settings are being applied to all programs (as this can take a few minutes). When the update has completed, you will receive a confirmation that the update is complete. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille was not working in the Window-Eyes Outlook calendar appointments list interface 
* We fixed a problem where Braille could cause speech to speak incorrectly when working with tables in Microsoft Word. 
* The message "no selected item" that is spoken when a list view contains no selected item is now displayed in Braille. 
* We fixed a Braille scrolling problem in Word and Outlook 2007 where text that didn't fit on the display could not be scrolled. 
* If you rename a file by pressing F2 on the filename in Windows Explorer, the filename would either not be displayed in Braille, or would be displayed twice. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes was looking at the underline attribute to determine if the selected attribute should be displayed, instead of looking at the highlight attribute. 
* We fixed a problem where speech graphic labels were being used instead of Braille graphic labels in Outlook 2003. 
* We fixed a problem where menu items for system tray icons were not being displayed in Braille. 
* If you defined a Braille key to insert a Down Arrow, and then another Braille key to insert an Enter, neither would work. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where the edit box control type would not clear from the Braille display when updating control contents. 
* We fixed a problem where using the Enter key on the Handy Tech Evolution 64 would cause Window-Eyes to hang. 
* Braille hotkeys that used the Windows key were not functioning. This problem has been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille was not showing up in NoteTab Pro. 
* We fixed a problem where strange characters would be displayed on the Handy Tech Braille Star 80 when using a tab instead of a space to separate words. 
* We fixed a problem where Braille was not working in the Word 2007 options dialog. 

### Microsoft Office 
* We fixed a problem where performing a Read to End in some complicated Microsoft Word tables could cause lockups. 
* We fixed a problem where appointments were not saving in the correct calendar if the Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog was opened for some calendar other than the default. 
* We fixed a problem where message status indication would stop after arrowing through the Outlook 2003 message list for a while. 
* We fixed a problem where the date in the Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog would revert back to 12/30/1899. 
* We fixed a problem where you weren't able to spell context menu items in the Outlook 2007 spell check dialog. 
* We fixed a problem where cursor routing keys were not working in Word 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where the reminder field in Outlook 2007 would not read when using the Up and Down Arrow keys. 
* We fixed a problem where comments were not being listed in the Insert-Tab dialog in Microsoft Word. 
* The browse options dialog in Word 2007, accessed with Control-Alt-Home, was not being read. This problem as been resolved. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes was off a few pixels when routing the mouse to the cursor in Word 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where the quote character wasn't announced if smart quotes were enabled. 
* The Day and Date columns are now removed from the Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog when in day view only. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would say "list box" after every list box item for list boxes in Office 2007 applications. 
* We fixed a problem where stopping a read to end in Outlook 2007 would cause Window-Eyes to go silent until you alt-tabbed away and then back. 
* We fixed a problem where Excel could lock up if it opened with the recovery window active. 
* We fixed a problem where Read to End would not work correctly in Word 2007 when the document was in compatibility mode. 
* We fixed a problem where graphic labels were not speaking (even though they existed) in Eudora 7 and Outlook Express. 
* We fixed a problem where the Word 2007 spell check read-only edit box would not read when arrowing around the contents. 
* We've sped up navigation in the Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog when using shared calendars or calendars over a network connection. 
* We fixed a problem where the element properties dialog would be empty if displayed on a slide with no objects selected. 
* We fixed a problem where monitor cells were not working in Excel 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where Window-Eyes would not correctly report the vertical position in Word 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where speech was splitting on apostrophe characters in Word 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where reading the status line in Outlook 2007 could cause a loss of speech. 
* We fixed a problem where the page navigation dialog in Excel 2007 was not listing hyperlinks. 
* We fixed a problem where the Window-Eyes Outlook Calendar dialog would not close when Outlook 2007 was closed. 
* We fixed a problem where some spreadsheets could cause Window-Eyes to become unresponsive using Excel 2007. 
* We fixed a problem where password edit boxes were not showing up in Excel. This has been fixed in Office XP and above. Office 2000 does not provide the necessary information to work around this problem. 